   Plannarly:When asked what inspired the creation of Plannarly, the students said, ”With the recent implementation of an A-day, B-day schedule, students are forced to keep up with many more classes. In the IB program, we’re placed in much more rigorous courses, demanding hours of homework. 9 AP, IB, and Honors classes is a lot to keep track of, and the calendar tends to get cluttered. Instead of rows and rows of assignments, Plannarly keeps the visuals simple and clean, only displaying the things the user has to do in each day.”
   Atmos Weather:When asked what inspired the creation of Atmos Weather, the student said, ”Weather prediction has always fascinated me. I first got interested in weather prediction and emergency alerts during the tornado super outbreak on April 27, 2011, which had a significant impact on my community. Ever since then, I have been thinking of ways to improve alerts. This year, I finally had all of the skills that would be needed to combine all of the different ideas that I have thought about since that day into one large app.”
   Dadify:When asked what inspired the creation of Dadify, the students said, ”The relationship between a parent and their child is one of the most important and precious things in life. In many homes, the time a child spends with their father is limited due to a variety of issues. An estimated fifty-two percent of dads say that balancing work and family is difficult. This results in a strained relationship between a father and his child or children. We set out to help with this issue when we created Dadify. Dadify allows parents, specifically dads, to generate an activity to participate in with their children or a joke to share. We believe that this will help parents who are struggling to bond with their children.”
   ASLify:
   Hook-ED:When asked what inspired the creation of Hook-ED, the student said, ”Just like some students, I was a procrastinator. But, it turns out that it all stemmed from the fact that I was easily distracted by my phone and needed a way of organizing my tasks. Moreover, when I was not able to understand something, I would become less motivated to do it, thinking I was just not cut out for it. So, I would go to my phone to distract myself from the unease. Being able to have an area where you are able to track the tasks you do is really helpful to productivity, especially when it saves and marks the important ones. Then, you are able to prioritize tasks. All in all, I feel the importance of this app because it is something that seems small like productivity and being on track, but it can impact and enhance the way an individual goes on with their lives and how they build their habits.”
   LookingGlass:When asked what inspired the creation of LookingGlass, the student said, ”During my 10th grade English class I realized there were elements to our reading that I never would have picked up if not for my teacher pointing it out. One of the main poems that not only made me realize this, but became one of my favorite poems, is “The Raven”, by Edgar Allen Poe, seen in the video. While brainstorming, I realized that if I were to create such an app, it would not only be applicable to literary texts, but educational ones as well, so I decided to make it into an educational aid tool. Unfortunately, not all students have access to in person learning, and are faced with interpreting both informative and literary texts all on their own. I also felt a very large appreciation for the technology of GPT-3, the text generation AI which this runs on, and felt implementing it more in our daily lives would be beneficial. The first thing I thought of was an educational role, especially during times of such shortage of teachers.”
   Nutritional Content Intake Calc:When asked what inspired the creation of Nutritional Content Intake Calc, the student said, “I believe that nutrition is an extremely important component of our health. It is a choice, which means it is a variable in our health that we can control, thus having more knowledge about what we eat will allow us to make healthy choices. This inspired me to create an app that helps people, in an easy way, to be aware of what they are eating.”
   No Narcotics:When asked what inspired the creation of No Narcotics, the students said, “With the ongoing opioid crisis, we were inspired to make a change by spreading awareness of harmful drugs, especially when abused with a given prescription. On the news, we hear about fentanyl pills being disguised as candy, and even the smallest exposure to this narcotic can hospitalize and even kill someone. Not only that, but drug overdoses are prevalent in society today, with them being a leading cause of death. This scares us because so many teenagers of our age are involved with substance abuse, and that could lead to an overdose at any time. Many youths don’t know the possible repercussions and this is often detrimental. By spreading the word, we hope we can contribute to ending this trend.”
   IrriSmart:When asked what inspired the creation of IrriSmart, the student said, ”Growing up in Arizona, I’ve witnessed constant water shortages plaguing our region, which have only been getting worse. In fact, Arizona is currently in its 27th year of a long term megadrought, and next year, Arizona will face some of its most drastic water cuts and lose 21% of its water from the Colorado River Basin. These water cuts will most severely impact the farmers in our region. Moreover, water shortage is not only a local issue but also a global issue. According to UNICEF, half of the world’s population could be living in areas facing water scarcity by as early as 2025. Many of these countries most affected by water scarcity are also those in developing regions in the Middle East and Africa. After learning about this, I decided to develop IrriSmart, a web application which provides farmers a precise calculation of necessary irrigation amount. Because much water is currently wasted during irrigation, IrriSmart can save thousands of gallons of water while still achieving high crop yield. Current smart irrigation systems which determine the necessary irrigation amount typically come with an initial investment cost and also require training to set up the sensor system, making farmers less likely to use this method. On the other hand, farmers only need to input a few parameters on IrriSmart (such as farm location, size, and crop planting date) to obtain a quick and accurate estimation of necessary irrigation amount. Free, accessible, irrigation management apps such as IrriSmart which utilize the increasing amount of data around us will be essential in a water scarce future, especially in drought-stricken developing nations.”
   Bubble Map:When asked what inspired the creation of Bubble Map, the students said, ”After being invited to attend Stanford’s Virtual 2021 Summer Session, where classes heavily emphasized the importance and power of the collaborative brainstorming process (due to the geographic limitations preventing us from ever meeting in person), we were repeatedly introduced to mind mapping. However, when we tried searching for online solutions that would allow us to perform this collaborative exercise together, in real time like Google Docs, we found that the few solutions that existed had outrageous prices for us students. In our initial planning for Bubble Map, we worked together to brainstorm new solutions that could increase students’ access to this powerful idea generation technique, ironically, by creating a giant mind map on three whiteboards. Because of my experience, Bubble Map’s goal is to make collaborative idea-generation-oriented mind maps available for everyone, especially students, to take advantage of, and empower them to brainstorm new, innovative manners of solving the problems that we as a society face today. Ultimately, we discovered that by rethinking the way we store our mind maps, opting to update our database only when a bubble of the mind map was added, removed, or updated-completely ignoring cosmetic things like bubble position, we could build a system using affordable technologies that would enable students across the world to work together to create the world’s next solutions to our shared problems as a society. Inspired by the AI-based code-writing tool, GitHub copilot, which could turn an English text description into ready-to-use code snippets at the click of a button through the power of GPT-3, we wanted to make the power of this AI model available to today’s creative thinkers, not just for a select group of programmers “in the know.” Overall, Bubble Map is designed to supply students and professionals with new modern and collaborative tools that allow for idea generation in an inspirational and unique way. By bringing artificial intelligence to the public, Bubble Map enables our population to take advantage of the latest, most powerful resources publicly available, maximizing our user’s potential and allowing us to build a better collaborative and creative world.”
   Key Master:When asked what inspired the creation of Key Master, the students said, ”We were inspired to create this app by the realization that not all people have the same access to computers as others. This leads to less efficient ways of using a laptop which could be used in a better manner, therefore leading us to make an app that could help those people in need.”
   Project Toy Exchange:When asked what inspired the creation of Project Toy Exchange, the student said, ”I was inspired to create this app after my last year’s award-winning submission from the Congressional app challenge turned into a 501c(3) nonprofit, conducting lots of work in our community through donation drives and volunteer work led by our Youth. I got this idea while working on the Toy drive for My Wish for My community, in which parents could have the option to not only donate their toys but also have the option to exchange them for different toys for their children.”
   RxAdvisor:When asked what inspired the creation of RxAdviser, the student said, ”Through personal experience, I became aware of a common problem where senior citizens see multiple specialists for various ailments and end up taking many medications, some of which interact negatively with each other. My goal with RxAdviser is to eradicate this common problem.”
   College Checklist:When asked what inspired the creation of College Checklist, the student said, ”I am currently a high school senior who is preparing for college and it feels as if there are a million things that I have to accomplish before graduation in May. If I were to have an app that allowed me to effectively view and complete actions I needed to finish for college, my stress levels would reduce dramatically.”
   The Legend of Mathematics:When asked what inspired the creation of The Legend of Mathematics, the students said, ”Our love of video games really inspired the app. Plus, we had always wanted to create a turn-based game for people to enjoy.”
   StreBit:When asked what inspired the creation of StreBit, the student said, ”Flexibility is important to the human body because it helps with reducing the risk of injuries and muscle soreness. One day, I was walking up and down the stairs way too much that I had a cramp on my calves that night. Because of the cramp, I started stretching daily. Stretching really helped, and I never had a cramp again. Afterwards, I want to spread the importance of stretching and help others to develop a habit of stretching daily. I decided to make an app. I started with the stand and reach test. It is a test that everyone knows and is able to do because all it requires is standing straight and then bending over. Stand and reach is one specific flexibility test for hamstrings. One of the functions of hamstrings is controlling hip movements. By improving hamstring flexibility, it will make performing daily tasks easier. My goal for the app is that users would use the app daily, and eventually benefit from the app.”
   MatheX:When asked what inspired the creation of MatheX, the student said, ”I have been passionate about creating software in the educational space for years now, ever since I first made and published an application to practice foreign languages back in 2017. How I came to develop math training software specifically for elementary students was an unexpected coincidence. Five years ago I had just launched three educational applications that were using speech technology to improve the learning process. I was invited to present them at multiple events to a public audience. After one of my demonstrations, a man who was working in the training of elementary school teachers came up to me and told me that there was a great need for such a product for the most basic math skills. After this conversation, I started looking into the research and discovered how essential a small number of fundamental skills were for a student’s understanding of every further concept in mathematics and for his further education and everyday life. But there seemed to be no timely methods to practice them. So I set out to build my own one…”
   Carbon Counter:When asked what inspired the creation of Carbon Counter, the students said, ”Sometimes as teens we can feel powerless in our position as we watch the world around us crumble, and it can be scary to be told that the future depends on us. This game is a chance for us to try, and do our part as best we can to educate others, and even ourselves. It’s not just us, but the next generation who will also face these problems, and we see this as an opportunity to teach them that the little things matter, and they don’t need big gestures to do their part, but small, meaningful changes in their everyday life. We were inspired by the effects that climate change is having on our world, and because of its increasing importance, if we were going to make an app, it would not only need to be relevant, but truly informative to all audiences.”
   Tortle:When asked what inspired the creation of Tortle, the student said, ”Taking from the famous tale, “the tortoise and the hare,” we were inspired by the lesson, “slow and steady wins the race.’ As current seniors in high school, we’ve understood the ups and downs and pressure of growing up and facing more strenuous courses and decisions for the future. Furthermore, with many of our peers voicing their mental health concerns and engaging in mental health advocacy, we could see that this is a very prevalent issue among all ages, especially teenagers. The mission of our app centers around how it is acceptable to take time and prioritize well being when feeling stressed. Sometimes, taking care of mental and physical well being sets you up with a clear mind to pursue other important tasks that could be causing stress. In addition, with the hustle culture that many young people believe in, we wanted to emphasize that it is okay for progress to take time, highlighted through many features of our app, including the mood tracker.As technology is growing fast as a solution for convenience in various fields, we combined the topic of mental health with technology and app development. The app promotes a self-care quiz to suggest solutions for stress and negative emotions. Additionally, we have included a journal as an outlet for mental health support. As a team, we’ve made sure to create appropriate tones, color, and easy navigation to create an appealing and calming user interface. At the same time, we wanted to ensure that our app was accessible to everyone, and part of that process included making sure that the color schemes, hues, and saturation would be visible and differentiable for individuals with color blindness. All elements of the app essentially point to the idea that taking time for yourself is important and that it is okay to do, and that everyone deserves an equal opportunity to get help if they need it.”
   CashCalc:When asked what inspired the creation of CashCalc, the student said, ”Throughout my life, I’ve often seen my parents performing tedious calculations such as discounts and unit prices while shopping, tip percentages at restaurants, and monthly payments on loans. This is why I decided to create CashCalc, a multifunction calculator app that combines all of these calculations into a single app. By making this, I hope to help simplify these monotonous tasks in people’s daily lives.”
   MyAche:When asked what inspired the creation of MyAche, the students said, ”For our HOSA club competitive event, we had to develop an innovation for a healthcare problem, build the innovation, and present it to a panel of judges. We decided to focus on the topic of headaches because we really wanted to hone in on a problem that a lot of people overlook. Headaches are a common everyday occurrence that plague people, but their dangers are overlooked. Headaches have been found to be linked to major neurological problems and seizures, and ignoring a basic symptom in our body is dangerous for our health. We decided to make a screener app for headaches with this purpose in mind. Another reason we created MyAche is that we believe that technology is being underutilized in healthcare to fit the patient. While technological advancements have allowed doctors, nurses, and primary care providers to vitalize healthcare, patients haven’t been able to control their own health using technology. While doctor’s visits and hospital checkups should continue and should still be practiced, apps such as MyAche will put healthcare into the hands of patients, so they are not kept in the dark about their health. Everyday problems can be combated effectively when patients understand the risks and doctors are kept in the loop, and MyAche was built to help achieve this goal. We believe that through apps like MyAche, doctors, and patients can come together to provide robust patient care where everyone lives happier and healthier lives. This app went on to place 5th at the 2022 Cal-HOSA State Leadership Conference and even achieved international recognition where it placed Top 20 at the 2022 HOSA International Leadership Conference, where we got to show off the app to the world in Nashville, Tennessee, connecting with patients and people around the world.”
   Impact:When asked what inspired the creation of Impact, the students said, ”I saw how my county faced some of the worst pollution in the country, and I was especially as I am someone who is respiratorily challenged. I understand I can’t change people’s minds, but making someone aware of their impact in the first place can still go a long way.”
   TrueDetect:When asked what inspired the creation of TrueDetect: A Wearable Machine Learning-Based Diagnostic and Evaluation System for Stress, Anxiety, and Depression Detection., the student said, ”At the start of this school year, I found myself observing the people around me, my friends, peers, teachers, etc. Everyone seemed to be unhappy and dealing with stress, anxiety, and quite a few people also had depression. When I asked them why they didn’t get help, they said that they or their guardian thought it was just regular academic and social stress and dismissed it due to the stigma around mental health. Until stress leads to depression because they thought they could handle it and didn’t get help, and they have no concrete evidence telling them (or their guardians) that something is wrong. So many suicides, self-harms and even gun violence could have been prevented if there was this concrete evidence.  This is not only impacting individuals but is also impacting society. We need to address this now. We have at-home kits/tools to measure everything: diabetes, cholesterol, even COVID, and yet we have nothing for this. So I began thinking about if we could create that substantial evidence, that reliable, usable at home or at doctor’s offices, tangible, affordable, measuring tool.”
   SkinChem:When asked what inspired the creation of SkinChem, the student said, ”In a world where climate change, pollution, and other environmental issues are rapidly worsening, action must be taken to combat these toxic chemicals’ dangers. That is why, this past summer, I decided to do independent research in this area, focused on how environmental toxins affect human health through the skin. After hours and hours of thorough research and compelling findings, I knew I needed to present this information somehow. I landed on the idea of a mobile app because it is the best and most effective way to share what I had learned and the conclusions I had come to. The main goal of my app and research has always been to increase awareness and accessibility around this field of information, giving people the freedom to make the best decisions for their own skin and health. While it is true that the devastating effects of climate change and environmental issues can be overwhelming and discouraging, there is so much opportunity for change. My small contribution to a much larger-scale, global issue became my primary source of inspiration to continue improving my app and is my proudest achievement from this entire process.”
   Pocket Congress:When asked what inspired the creation of Pocket Congress, the student said, ”In history class, we learn that the public nature of American democracy – the ability of the people to know what their representatives are doing and hold them accountable – is one of the most important components of our system of government. When I wanted to know what my congressperson was working on, I found the information was difficult to find. Many people don’t even know who their representatives are. I was inspired to create Pocket Congress because I knew an app was the perfect tool to bridge this information gap and make these records accessible.”
   Utrition:When asked what inspired the creation of Utrition, the student said, ”One day, I came across an article online that talked about hidden sugars in your snacks. It said that although ingredients on labels are always required to be listed in order of quantity, some processed foods with a high sugar content intentionally use multiple types of sweeteners to “break it up” into smaller amounts. With this, sugar won’t be listed as one of the primary ingredients anymore, even though the amount stays the same. Scrolling down the page, there was a long list of different sweetener names, and I looked with growing horror at the empty box of “healthy” cookies next to me – there were 5 to 6 of those sweeteners listed at once! That got me looking into how to read ingredient/nutrition labels, and I learned that there are a lot of pitfalls you can fall into while reading them (e.g. serving sizes, generalized/alternate names of ingredients). Thinking about how tedious it is to search and look out for these things one by one, I got the idea to make Utrition, an app to help you avoid those pitfalls and make it easier to figure out what you’re eating.”
   Happy Hub:When asked what inspired the creation of Happy Hub, the student said, ”When I got to high school, I realized there was a lot of pressure to do well, academically. The pressure started getting to me and I was almost always really anxious about tests and quizzes and even homework. I started neglecting my health to focus on schoolwork. At school, my friends and I shared stories of how we had slept at 2 or 3 am for a whole week or skipped lunch to study for tests. I noticed that almost everyone around me was going through the same things I was. As our school was filled with academic high achievers, everyone was always anxious about grades. I realized that a place to vent would alleviate the anxiety because when I talked to my friends about all the tasks ahead, we laughed about them, and they felt less daunting. As I researched more into my idea, I found some shocking statistics. 16.39% of children ages 12-17 report suffering from at least 1 major depressive episode in the past year. About 18% of people ages 18-54 have an anxiety disorder in a given year. Even before the pandemic, there was a 27% increase in the number of kids diagnosed with anxiety problems. 21% of all US adults are diagnosed with a mental disorder, and this number is much higher in females than males. To try to solve this problem, my initial idea was simply an app to track the user’s moods daily and present them in various graph formats so that the user could analyze and review their emotional trends. To do this, I wanted to use facial recognition AI because people can sometimes misread themselves or not want to admit when they are unhappy. As the project grew, I added several other features.”
   BerriBasket:When asked what inspired the creation of BerriBasket, the students said, ”One of the more unrepresented groups as far as access and knowledge about technology is farmers. While there are outliers of farmer’s with access to advanced equipment, the majority are not technologically advanced. Having this in the back of our minds, members of our group who enjoy going to farmer’s markets on the weekends realized that the only access to getting fresh produce was to go in person, with no service that allows for the ordering and delivery of these same products. With the popularity of the grocery delivery service Instacart, it made sense for our group to create an application that would provide the same category of service as grocery delivery, but with a twist catered towards farmer’s markets and local produce. Upon researching potential competitors, we came to the conclusion that while there are services that deliver products from local farms in certain geographical areas, there was no product that could serve as a platform for any farmer’s market to gain an online presence. The only deciding factor left was to ensure there was a target audience for our application, and according to the USDA government website, as of 2021, there were 8,000 farmer’s markets spread across the U.S. By developing BerriBasket as a self service platform, vendors can onboard themselves without requiring manual intervention (high touch) by our team.”
   Signer:When asked what inspired the creation of Signer, the student said, ”According to the National Institute of Health (NIH), one in eight people in the United States (13 percent, or 30 million) aged 12 years or older have hearing loss in both ears. 430 million people around the world are deaf and in the United States alone 1 million people are deaf. People who are hard of hearing or deaf commonly rely on American Sign Language (ASL) to communicate with each other. In the US, only 500 thousand people know ASL, the majority being those who are deaf. Among those of hearing (not deaf), very few know or understand ASL. Deaf people face various challenges in their daily lives because of this sign language barrier. I was inspired to create Signer after finding out about the communication struggles the deaf community face. Most deaf people rely on sign language to communicate because they cannot communicate audibly. Sign language can be used to communicate between deaf people but how do people who do not understand sign language communicate with the deaf community? Currently, there is no simplistic and efficient solution to this “sign language barrier” and many deaf and non-deaf people face daily difficulties because of this. I created Signer to help deaf people communicate with non-deaf people. Signer converts sign language (American Sign Language) into speech, it is almost like allowing the deaf community to voice their message to the non-deaf community. Using this app, I hope that communication can become better altogether and the language barrier can be alleviated. During the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, I learned to develop iOS iPhone Apps. From there, I explored the world of AI and how it could make an impact. I currently have 5 apps on the App Store and plan to develop more. Through my apps, I aim to make a difference in the world by solving real-world problems.”
   Sign Talk:When asked what inspired the creation of Sign Talk, the students said, ”Ever since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, virtual conferencing platforms such as Zoom, Google Meets, Skype, and Facetime have come to define how people communicate with one another. Each day, an average of 300 million people use virtual conferencing applications to conduct everything from social calls to work meetings. As technology progresses, this number will only increase. Despite the many benefits digital communication has over traditional forms of communication, many disparities arise when we digitize communication. The needs of the deaf and hard-of-hearing community have been largely overlooked in the development of video conferencing platforms. After witnessing first-hand the struggles one of our deaf classmates experienced with online learning and video calls, we felt inclined to see if there was anything we could do to help. We interviewed our classmate to learn more about her experiences as someone who is hard of hearing and were surprised by how much we take for granted when it comes to communicating with others. For many individuals who rely on ASL to communicate, interpreters are necessary for speaking with other students who do not know ASL, preventing private conversations from occurring and subsequently harming deaf students’ social connections. Although platforms such as Zoom have some features such as live transcripts and the features to spotlight sign language interpreters, no option exists to allow ASL users to communicate directly in ASL, without the involvement of an interpreter. Additionally, we learned about the cost associated with ASL interpreters and how some schools and events often forgo hiring interpreters due to their high costs. Despite the clear need for improvements to the capabilities of ASL apps and features, a quick search in the app store reveals that there is no application that translates ASL directly into English. Sign Talk changes this by allowing people who use ASL to communicate directly with those who don’t understand it, without the need for an interpreter or expensive fees. In doing so, we enable ASL users to engage in the digital world and make sure their voices are heard.”
   Pill Alarm:When asked what inspired the creation of Pill Alarm, the student said, ”My mom has a chronic illness and she said that all medicine-tracking apps suck.”
   San Joaquin Valley Snacks:When asked what inspired the creation of San Joaquin Valley Snacks, the students said, ”We were inspired to create this app because we understood the foreign feeling people might get when visiting the valley and like any other place. We wanted to make an app that was a quick and easy process for families and friends to find cool locations to dine in and get to know the place they are visiting.When coming up with an app, one must think about what the user wants to know or do. In our case, we put ourselves in people who were visiting and wanted to know a good place to eat that wasn’t a chain restaurant.For example, Alyson recalls a moment during the summer when someone from Coalinga asked her what was good to eat around Kingsburg. She remembers saying a few common places downtown, but she struggled to remember. After that conversation, she thought about how easy it would be to answer their question if only she had all of the information in one place. Sure, doing a Google Search on good places to eat around you might be a good option when you don’t know much about the area, but even with common apps for this situation like Yelp can be too broad and not include everything. They also may not have the right area you are looking for and probably work better in bigger cities. This app makes it more personal with our experiences and the fact that it is focused on small town business’ or hidden business’ in a city.”
   One Connected:When asked what inspired the creation of One Connected, the students said, ”Previous school years consisted of emails not being read by the full student body. “Club rush” was the only opportunity for students to hear about clubs and sign up in-person. Not being able to easily join clubs and communicate within them made it difficult for connections to be formed. This school year, it all changes. Students will no longer struggle to communicate between themselves and other clubs/organizations. That is exactly why One Connected was created: to break the communication barrier and be connected as one.”
   College Major Recommender:When asked what inspired the creation of College Major Recommender, the student said, ”What inspired me to create this app was the overwhelming number of students, especially those in high school, not knowing what they are going to do for the future. Personally, my brother graduated from high school last year, and during that time he had a difficult time choosing his major. This also applies to me, as I have yet to hone in on a specific field to study so far even when I am in my junior year. It also impacts the people I interact with everyday, with one example being a club called Code For Kids. This is where I teach kids about the art of coding through the coding language Python, and seeing these kids grow under the foundation of computer science is very helpful for their future. This made me think about other kids who don’t do any extracurriculars, and I want all types of kids no matter their background to at least explore areas of study that they have never heard of before. As for my friends, when I ask them, they also have no idea what they want to study in the future. This probably applies for many more people in the entire world, as I have heard many stories of people not knowing their potential until college itself. Because of these repeated occurrences, I decided to make an app dedicated to trying to solve this issue. Even though it may not immediately solve a person’s dilemma in this situation, it can give them a foundational start to maybe consider other fields that they have never thought of before.”
   VetConnect:When asked what inspired the creation of VetConnect, the student said, ”It came to my attention that a veteran dies from suicide every 65 minutes in the US. I was blown away when I heard this statistic and knew I had to do something. After I researched this topic for weeks, I was surprised to find out that there were barely any apps available to help veterans. That’s when I started to identify the best resources for veterans (mental health, education,  employment, etc) and bring them all in one platform for veterans to view. After developing this app for months, I finally finished VetConnect and uploaded it to the App Store for all veterans to use! So far the feedback has been tremendous, and I can’t wait to make this app even better!”
   PCPosture:When asked what inspired the creation of PCPosture, the student said, ”My daily hours spent in front of a computer has drastically increased, especially with the onset of the global pandemic. This is further exacerbated by the fact that I focus on computer science and nearly all of my work involves use of a computer. Good posture is something that matters for both short and long term lumbar spine health, and especially more so for me, as I do weightlifting on the side.  One of the classes I took in my school, called Engineering Design and Development, involved solving a problem that matters to you; but to solve it, you first needed to prove that it existed. I knew beforehand that posture mattered while sitting, and our group set out to find how much. We came up with the following problem statement:Back pain is extremely common among the population, with the number of people in a community experiencing it up to 80% and increasing at an average rate of 2.5% year over year. Due to muscle fatigue, soreness, bad ergonomics, or general inability to hold proper posture, visual display screen users often end up sitting with bad posture. Many research studies show a strong correlation between computer usage and neck pain:  4 hours a day without a break is associated with neck and shoulder pain, while a total of 21 or more hours a week in front of a computer is positively correlated with back pain. Bad posture is also known to result in stretched spinal ligaments, increased blood pressure, lack of blood flow, bladder problems, heartburn, headaches, depression, stress, digestive issues, poor breathing, herniated disks, and general pain in the neck, legs, and shoulders.Given that I knew my posture while sitting was both poor and that doing so affected my health to such a degree, I set out to create a solution. My goal was to not only reduce my back pain, but to also increase my knowledge of computer vision and neural networks.”
   Addvent:When asked what inspired the creation of Addvent, the student said, ”I’m sure everybody, including me, has been told to be more organized and to set goals within a clear timeline or date. Now instead of buying a planner or writing all my goals down on paper, I could simply install a free easy-to-use app that I could quickly open on my computer at any time. I wanted to create an app that would encourage its users to create goals that are meant to benefit themselves and others around them. Although there are many calendar apps available on every device, I was never able to find one that encouraged me to create goals for myself or my community. I wanted to use an app that functioned similarly to a normal calendar app, but also kept track of my progress and rewarded me with satisfaction after completing my goals. So, I created Addvent for others to become a better version of themselves and to become role models for their community in a way that was easy and fun to do.”
   Admonere:When asked what inspired the creation of Admonere, the students said, ”As high school students who faced the difficulties of switching from in-person learning to online learning and then back to in-person learning, we noticed that many students had a decline in their mental health as they worried about staying on track with their school work and staying motivated. We wanted to find a solution to this, we wanted an app that would create a stress-free study session for students. We researched study techniques and resources to improve mental health, and we discussed strategies that help us and our classmates stay motivated. By combining our findings, we created Admonere. Admonere stemmed from our struggles and turned into an innovation that we want to share with students like us who are feeling overwhelmed.”
   Rhythm Reader:When asked what inspired the creation of Rhythm Reader, the student said, ”As someone newer to the musical scene and in my school’s jazz band, I often find the rhythms in our songs difficult or confusing to play. While practicing with a real instrument and teacher is the best way to improve your rhythm reading, I can’t always have a teacher’s attention, and I don’t always have my guitar with me. This inspired me to create my own rhythm training app as having a tool where I could create the rhythms I play in class and get feedback immediately seemed like the second best option to me. I doubt I’m the only one who faces this challenge and so the prospect of potentially being able to help others in a similar situation as I inspired me.”
   AI Golf Coach:When asked what inspired the creation of AI Golf Coach, the student said, ”My inspiration to create this app was my own interactions and experiences with my peers, as being a ranked golfer, I noticed that there was a major barrier to entry in the world of golf: coaching. Top tier coaching requires lots of money, time, and discipline to continue working on the specific techniques a coach gives in a player’s own practice time. Thus, I wanted to fuse my interests in artificial intelligence and my ability in coding to create a free application to act as an “on-the-go” coach that could compare the player’s swing with another player’s swing, such as a professional’s or a friend’s. In addition, I knew that the inability of a coach to travel with the ordinary golfer whenever they practiced was not realistic, and thus, by fitting various algorithms and artificial intelligence into a mobile app, the average beginner, intermediate, or advanced golfer could utilize this software to bring their golf swings and awareness to new heights! The end result was AI Golf Coach, an application that gives immediate feedback and spreads the game of golf by breaking through a critical barrier.”
   Let's Bear This Together!:When asked what inspired the creation of Let’s Bear This Together!, the student said, ”I was inspired to make this app because growing up, I was not educated on the ways that my everyday life impacted the environment. Until high school, I never realized how many habits that I had that were wasteful and harmful to the environment around me. By the time that I realized my impact on the environment, I realized that I had already wasted so much throughout my life. With this app, I hope that I can help educate the younger generations on the impact that they have on the environment so that they can avoid the same mistakes that I had made when I was younger.”
   AtaxiaV:When asked what inspired the creation of AtaxiaV:  Quantitative Assessment and Treatment System for Ataxia on the cloud, the students said, ”We are Presidents and Software Developers of the Voice of Calling NPO, an organization that consists of young computer scientists from all over the world. Our inspiration comes from our motto “We Listen, We Go, We Work.”, as we listen for a calling, go towards the calling, and work to progress humanity for the better. Our inspiration came when we were first introduced to Ataxia, a rare neurological disease affecting the lives of 1 in every 50,000 people in the US. Ataxia is a progressive disease, affecting a person’s ability to walk, talk, and use fine motor skills. The age of symptom-onset varies with patients, as the disease isn’t limited to a specific age group. Complications from the disease are severe, leading to potential deaths. Nevertheless, an accurate diagnostic method and effective drug for Ataxia patients have yet to be developed. At first, AtaxiaV was started at the request of Dr. Lee, a rehabilitation medicine professor, in hopes to obtain quantitative and accurate patient experimental data using a computer in a standardized examination environment. This led to the development of Ataxia version 1 to test patients with Ataxia on the computer touch screen. While familiarizing with patients through Facebook’s Ataxia group and the International Ataxia conference, we discovered that there were a lot more children with Ataxia than we anticipated. This prompted a challenge as diagnosis and rehabilitation was hardly performed on children compared to adults. Putting an emphasis on child patients, we started to investigate on our own whether our computer technology could help these patients in these difficult situations. However, Dr. Lee had different intentions than us, and as soon as he obtained his desired data through AtaxiaV1, the project was discontinued, making it difficult to resume this project. In the meantime, our organization continued on our own path as we held a free coding and robotics camp for Foster Family Children in the area, Many of which were diagnosed with autism, learning disabilities, and other behavioral disorders. While working with the foster children, the Ataxia patients kept coming to mind. That’s when we made up our decision. We were determined to further develop AtaxiaV. AtaxiaV is currently being developed even without the help of medical expert mentors. Through this App Challenge, we hope this extended and difficult ordeal will be known in many places and help patients with Ataxia to be diagnosed and treated more accurately.”
   Aqua Manager:When asked what inspired the creation of Aqua Manager, the student said, ”Los Angeles has been through a lot of droughts and doesn’t exactly have the most amount of water. I noted that many people agreed that we needed to save water, but most of them didn’t know how to start. Since June 1, 2022, the city of LA released new rules for water use, and I followed them to help save water. However, I noted that many people weren’t even aware of the existence of the LA city rules and had no clue about other resources and benefits they could obtain. I also noted that even after knowing the rules, many thought the rules were somewhat complicated due to the date and time limit on water use. I wanted to create an app that helps people manage their water usage and helps them understand the LA City Water Rules.”
   Affordable Crowd-Funded Earthquake Early Warning System:When asked what inspired the creation of Affordable Crowd-Funded Earthquake Early Warning System, the student said, ”As a first-generation immigrant, I am thankful for having the ShakeAlert system, but I also wish my relatives in the equally earthquake-prone Philippines could enjoy the same safety measures. Unfortunately, budget limitations prevent earthquake-prone developing countries like the Philippines, Indonesia, Afghanistan, India, Burma, Ghana, Nigeria, Columbia, Venezuela, and Bolivia from building traditional earthquake warning systems. This system could also be used in the US northeast, midwest, and the south. It can even be used to augment the existing west coast system to improve the accuracy and speed of ShakeAlert by increasing the number of dedicated seismic detection stations.”
   The tradional Cure vs The Modern Medicine:When asked what inspired the creation of The Traditional Cure vs The Modern Medicine, the student said, ”I was inspired to create this app because I realized the harm my father’s chronic pain was causing him. Seeing how much medicine he was required to take and how it progressively decreased the quality of his life was heartbreaking to see as a daughter. I created this app to help others like him in need of education on old methods of medicine.”
   Foresight:When asked what inspired the creation of Foresight, the student said, ”Take a look around and visualize the colors, faces, and objects that surround you. Now, imagine if that was taken away from you in an instant. While many of us may not be able to imagine what it would feel like to live in a world consumed by darkness, many people do. In fact, “approximately 12 million people 40 years and over in the United States have vision impairment, including 1 million who are blind…” (CDC, 2020). Our eyesight is so crucial to our everyday lives and without it, we struggle to fit into society because we can’t do anything. Knowing that there are people out there who struggle with simple daily tasks such as walking around the house, reading during their free time, or even grabbing a cup of water made me want to create this app. As well as that, as times have progressed, technology has become more prevalent and we see tools that are used to help those who are visually impaired such as braille, dwindle. I want to provide a resource to those who do not have the funds to get a caretaker or an extremely expensive piece of tech to still be able to assimilate into society and be independent. Our sense of freedom stems from the ability to do what we want and if there is something hindering us, we may feel trapped. Research has proved that those who can’t see typically suffer from more mental health problems because they are stuck at home all day and can not do much. I had witnessed this firsthand, as one of my dad’s friends who suffers from glaucoma was laid off from their job and stayed home all day. It takes such a toll on the visually impaired and I am here to make an impact in this community by offering an app that can increase their productivity and independence.”
   HALO:When asked what inspired the creation of HALO, the student said, ”Each year, over 300,000 people are diagnosed with central nervous system cancers worldwide. My family has struggled with cancer after losing a relative to Glioblastoma, so my goal is to make healthcare information resources more accessible to doctors and patients around the world who deal with CNS cancers as well. Although there have been major advances in cancer detection through non-invasive methods such as MRI imaging, diagnosis and prognosis techniques are labor-intensive and inefficient. These are also not equally available to patients, physicians or hospitals in much of the developing world. This presents a promising field for technology-based solutions that can help automate the data processing and analysis of clinical information.  By training and deploying the classification and prognosis models on the cloud and making them accessible to researchers and physicians worldwide, I hope to contribute to the broader research community. Clinicians can enhance the models with patient data from different ethnicities and backgrounds, which will reduce prediction bias. HALO will also help achieve the two primary goals of President Joe Biden’s Cancer Moonshot Initiative: to reduce the cancer death rate by half within 25 years and improve the lives of people with cancer and cancer survivors. HALO will have a significant positive impact on faster, more accurate diagnosis and survival prognosis of cancer patients worldwide.”
   MnewNote:When asked what inspired the creation of MnewNote, the students said, ”We noticed, through our peers and ourselves, that many people struggle with studying, whether it be finding motivation, being able to focus, or just finding the right study method. There are many students out there who spend hours studying but do not get the results they are looking for because they are studying inefficiently. Efficient studying should combine effective techniques in addition to a balanced routine with frequent breaks. We took into consideration a plethora of scientifically proven study methods, tried using them ourselves, before implementing them into an easy-to-use app. Our app combines proven study techniques with a Pomodoro timer to maximize productivity plus reduce mental burnout. In addition, we also took into consideration psychological studies on the benefits of rewards and incentives into motivating students to learn. Therefore, we decided to add an economy system with “Stars” as a currency for students to purchase collectibles. We hope a combination of efficient study methods and a rewards system will motivate our peers, allow them to study effectively, and score well on their exams.”
   EcoTakeOut:When asked what inspired the creation of EcoTakeOut, the student said, ”’Necessity is the mother of invention.’ When I observed the impacts of climate change on our coastal community and the lack of information about sustainable packaging, I became inspired to develop this app. I wanted to combine my passion for coding with my passion for protecting our earth to develop something that would have a lasting impact on our community.  
   Impact:When asked what inspired the creation of Impact, the student said, ”As seen in the video, my current history class inspired me to create this app. Every day, my history teacher would take the first few minutes of class to ask the students about current events in our world. Most of the time, only the same few students would participate, or no one would take part at all. My history teacher explained to us how important it is to stay informed of current events because we will be the ones who will eventually lead society. Daunted by the lack of participation and my teacher’s lesson, I read the news at least once per day. I knew that this wasn’t enough, that being one of the few participants during that time in class would not change the fact that an overwhelming large number of students do not inform themselves of the news; instead of formulating their own opinions and stances regarding issues in the world, they listen to and agree with others’ opinions. That’s when I knew I needed to take action, so I used my programming skills to create an app that would benefit students and teens, as well as the world.”
   TeenSpace:When asked what inspired the creation of TeenSpace, the student said, ”In March 2022, my school grappled with two bomb threats in one week. It was frightening and confusing, since we’d never heard of a school getting a bomb threat before and never reviewed what to do if we got one. This apprehension and confusion was only worsened after our school received a shooter threat just two days after the Uvalde school shooting. Everyone panicked, since once again, we had never been taught what to do in case of a shooting threat. Had we been taught what to do in these situations, we could have been more prepared and think more calmly should anything have happened. Wanting to take action, I got to thinking what the best way would be for everyone to effectively learn how to stay safe in a shooting. I initially thought of learning through a school assembly, but given the fact that every teenager at my school ignored any information told in assemblies, it was clear to me that school assemblies were not the best solution. However, my peers were usually engaged during class when we learned information by playing trivia games like Quizziz or Kahoot! or whatever game the teacher made up. It seemed like the best way to push out information to teenagers was trivia games. As I worked on the app, I realized that there was more safety information that teenagers needed to know other than gun safety: all the information covered in the assemblies that teenagers had ignored, including cybersafety, drug safety, driving safety, and dating safety. I included all of these categories in my app, along with gun safety, and researched and produced questions to help teenagers gain understanding on how to stay safe.”
   Helping Hands:When asked what inspired the creation of Helping Hands, the student said, ”I was inspired to create this app due to seeing many kids at my school not getting the academic help they wanted. Whether it was because they were too shy to ask or they were simply not around the proper group to get academic assistance, there are too many students around the world who need a reliable source of help with their school work. However, as I have observed time after time, many of these same struggling students are against the idea of making themselves vulnerable and asking their teacher for help; many would much rather prefer receiving help from peers around their age, and that is exactly what I created Helping Hands to do.”
   RecyLink:When asked what inspired the creation of RecyLink, the students said, ”Global warming has become a more and more serious issue in our world. There are 481 BILLION plastic bottles used worldwide each year and only 9% were recycled because the current recycling programs are NOT working efficiently. In fact, California’s government recently announced that 600 million dollars in refunds are still waiting to be claimed, and they plan to double the refund rate to increase incentives. Many states are facing the same problems. There are thousands of recycling centers throughout the USA but not many people go there for recycling due to inconvenience and the increasing cost of transportation. In the meantime, the students want to participate in recycling but do not know how. The schools also lack funding to run educational and extracurricular activities including recycling programs. However, we believe the problems will not be solved by raising the government refund alone.  After observing the daily lives around us, we found that the root cause of the low recycling efficiency issue is due to three main pain points. Firstly, the re-counting issue. Laborers are always needed to pour out all the bottles collected to recount them before delivering them over to the recycling centers, which makes the whole process very time-consuming, labor-intensive, and unappealing. Secondly, lack of an integrated information system to record and track all bottles recycled by each student in real time. The students’ contributions could not be recorded accurately, thus the positive incentives could not be awarded accordingly to encourage the students to do more recycling activities. Thirdly, the silo communication network among the stakeholders, namely, the students, schools, and recycling centers, generates long lead time between activities during the process of recycling.  After analyzing the problems and issues, we believe that a user scenario innovation, with the help of AI technology, will make a difference. So, we designed an app called “RecyLink”, to link the real-world recycling activities with the virtual digital data ocean, to link the people from different locations and among different roles, and to link historical data to the future trends.”
   Check-In:When asked what inspired the creation of Check-In, the students said, ”In school, we saw a struggle with attendance in many classes, club meetings, and events. In classes, some teachers are unable to do their attendance in a quick and organized manner, therefore, having to spend large amounts of time from the class taking attendance. This also applied to club meetings and school events where a large majority of the time was spent getting attendance instead of actually presenting what needed to be said. In general, it was a time waster. We saw a potential for an attendance app where the student submits their own attendance and the teacher does not have to spend their precious time doing attendance and can instead have more time to teach the class. Club meetings and events would significantly improve due to the efficiency of student-led attendance.A couple of teachers recognized this problem and tried to make alternative solutions like using Google forms. Google forms, unfortunately, were never made to track the attendance of a school class and therefore lack in certain areas like preventing students from creating loopholes in a proper attendance. An app that can securely handle attendance with security measures, use a student-led attendance system to improve efficiency, and display neat and detailed attendance sheets is the solution to these problems. Luckily, that is what we have created.”
   Tomorrow's Voices:When asked what inspired the creation of Tomorrow’s Voices, the students said, ”We think it’s important to have an informed public so that the choices made by our officials are what the majority wants. To make a better future we have to use the voices we have to make a difference. Every vote and voice matters so we wanted to create a way for people to learn a little more about what’s happening in the world around us.”
   Swim Meet Tracker:When asked what inspired the creation of Swim Meet Tracker, the student said, ”When at swim meets my parents and I never know when I need to be heating.  This inspired me to believe a better way could exist.  That’s why I built the app.”
   FBLA Lettering Points Application:When asked what inspired the creation of FBLA Lettering Points Application, the students said, ”We were asked to create this app by our FBLA chapter to help them keep track of how many lettering points each member has and also to allow for easy tracking of attendance for events. Our app has proven to be very effective at increasing participation for events as it gives members a definitive dashboard to track the upcoming events and incentivizes participation.”
   Pastelia Development:When asked to describe Pastelia, the students said, ”Pastelia is a social media app that promotes positivity. There are no numbers such as likes, and you can only see posts from your friends once you mutually add one another. This helps people from being prone to negative stereotypes, as well as creates a safe community for them and their friends.”
   The Help Desk:When asked what inspired the creation of The Help Desk, the student said, ””
   Pomket:When asked what inspired the creation of Pomket, the student said, ”I was motivated to create Pomket seeing students and even some faculty members feeling embarrassed when they send mass emails to the whole school, especially when the content is not closely related to academics or school-wide events. This was largely the case for when people were selling miscellaneous items such as textbooks or a pair of shoes. School emails are not intended for trading goods within the community and not all the people reading the emails are interested in trading, so I decided to create a digital space for them to communicate and trade freely without so much  limitation on what they post. Additionally, I had the intention to spread positive influence across the whole school community, as well as further out to the local community, as Pomket could collaborate with the school Thrift Store, Environmental Club, and Volunteering Club. The philanthropic endeavors these three groups set out to achieve can be supported and expanded through the use of Pomket, as it helps them to settle on a single digital platform to make announcements, significantly increasing the awareness of the actions they are taking, and encouraging participation from our community members.”
   Stress Scope:When asked what inspired the creation of Stress Scope, the student said, ””
   DETICKT:When asked what inspired the creation of DETICKT IT, the student said, ”Living in a heavily-wooded area in Connecticut, ticks are very common throughout the area. Growing up, I was always told to check myself for ticks, but I did not know the danger of ticks and the prevalence of tick-borne diseases (TBDs). Last year, I was diagnosed with a rare, life-threatening tick-borne infection after a year of misdiagnoses. I was shocked by the lack of awareness that some medical providers exhibited for tick-borne infections and ticks in general. This inspired me to create a way to assess the risk posed by ticks and to raise awareness of tick-borne diseases. I wanted to find a way to expedite the diagnosis and prognosis of tick-borne diseases since tick tests are expensive and take weeks to process, which is critical for time-sensitive diseases. I was amazed by the lack of available surveillance data on tick-borne illness incidence rates in the USA. Nevertheless, I took my convolutional neural network for tick identification to the next level and created an app using Swift for native iOS app development. I entered my app at the Connecticut Science and Engineering Fair (CSEF) and won 1st place in the Data Science and Bioinformatics category. After receiving positive feedback from peers, professionals, and fellow TBD patients, I decided to publish DETICKT IT on the App Store. I have received 575 downloads and continue to receive testimonials on the value of DETICKT IT and the impact it has made.”
   ParkinSense:When asked what inspired the creation of ParkinSense, the students said, ”The chance of an elderly person developing Parkinson’s Disease is around 2%.   The chance of two people developing Parkinson’s disease is 0.04%.   That is less than the chance of flipping a coin, and landing heads, ten times in a row.  Implausible, but not impossible.  Implausible defines one of our friend’s paternal grandparents. Both developed Parkinson’s Disease within 3 years. While their minds were degenerating at an accelerated pace, he devoted his time to studying the mind.   His grandparents, especially his grandfather, had a late diagnosis, as a result of the associated barriers, especially the lack of healthcare in his region. When he was diagnosed, the disease had already substantially progressed. My friend saw as my grandparent went to treatment after treatment with little help, and he began to lose control of his body.  I had already become interested in Neuroscience and technology in middle school. My friend’s dedication engulfed me as well, and I became interested in the issue of Parkinson’s Disease diagnosis and research. We began working together, although working in slightly different directions. Initially, I was focused on gene-based approaches to diagnosis, because little was known about that, but they seemed promising. However, I later transitioned to a contactless approach, because of the necessity of such an option, and because despite their potential, little has been done with them. A few months later, when my friend had to put his research on pause because of college, I continued his efforts.  I was inspired to pursue the application when I had others approach me, willing to mentor me or help me. From then on, I knew I was doing something that could greatly impact humanity. This became increasingly apparent, as I began working with multiple universities and organizations, and the professors complimented me for my efforts and were themselves quite interested in what I was working on.  I hope this paves the way for more accessible diagnosis, especially in third-world countries and poverty-stricken areas without access to healthcare. I hope I can use the application to diagnose individuals like my friend’s grandparents much earlier and let them live the more comfortable life they deserve. However, perhaps more importantly, I hope that I can inspire or lead to similar inventions in other related fields that could massively benefit from such a creation. For example, Alzheimer’s and other neurodegenerative disease patients may see great benefits in a similar application.”
   Recycle Pro:When asked what inspired the creation of Recycle Pro, the students said, ”We were inspired to create this app because we feel that the world’s current environmental issues are too severe not to take action. In my own experience, I had tried to recycle stuff in the past but was confused by the vast and conflicting online information and wasn’t sure if I was doing it correctly. For this reason, I wanted to make a digital resource readily available and clear to understand that teaches you the ins and outs of recycling and environmental clean-up. Another thing that motivated us, especially as high school students, was generating volunteering opportunities/community outreach. Many people don’t have access to or don’t know where or how to help their community. We hoped to create a free space where everyone could organize, join, and share. Our app has the potential to increase the volume of volunteers as well as foster environmental stewardship.”
   Hiker Hunt:When asked what inspired the creation of Hiker Hunt, the student said, ”While explaining to my friends and parents why I want to take a gap year between high school and college, I most eagerly described how much I wanted to travel and hike some of the world’s most beautiful sites and landmarks, like Machu Picchu. I justified wanting to travel and hike by describing how once college and the rest of my life start up again, it will become increasingly difficult to simply take time off, especially when a family and kids become part of the equation. More difficult than taking kids on challenging hikes is getting them interested in the first place. Before they can appreciate the beauty that nature’s resources have to offer, some kids often find hiking boring, thinking of it as a long, difficult, semi-pointless walk. I then realized I could create an app to solve that problem. Knowing that kids love completing tasks to earn rewards, I created Hiker Hunt to give kids a scavenger hunt along their hike where they earn points for the various items they find. Not only can kids compete with themselves and try to check off every item, but it could also be an inter-family competition where siblings are each looking for items and trying to get more points than the other. ”
   Coastal:When asked what inspired the creation of Coastal, the students said, ”Since I grew up here, I’ve constantly been scuba diving, surfing, and fishing on the coast, and like other locals, I’m well aware of the risk that beaches hold, such as strong currents in areas, or large waves. However, tourists are generally unfamiliar with the beach and its safety measures, and have poor knowledge of beach hazards like rip currents and breaking waves. Due to overconfidence in swimming ability or lack of current knowledge, tourists can make unwise swimming decisions. Just this year’s memorial day weekend, there were a reported  26 calls for distressed swimmers in just Destin, with lifeguards performing over 30 water rescues, and sadly one death. It seems as though every summer, there never fails to be some tragic tourist death due to ocean conditions. ”
   Vocab Master:When asked what inspired the creation of Vocab Master, the students said, ”We were inspired to create this app by the presence of immigrant individuals and mentally challenged individuals in our school. Many immigrants in our school came from Latin American countries, where English was not their first language. Thus, these students tended to understand what the objects represented but struggled to link it to the English word over that of their native tongues. There were students in our Spanish classes that struggled to speak basic English but excelled in speaking and writing Spanish. This showed to us that they understood the concept behind using language but struggled with shifting towards English over their native language. We ourselves have experienced similar experiences within our group. When James and Heewon came to the United States, they both struggled to speak English when they first arrived. This is because the languages they had grown up using were Chinese and Korean, respectively. Although they understood what objects were, they struggled with relating it to the English word over Chinese or Korean. Seeing a similar issue within our school, we decided that we would create an app to help people to understand English better and be able to link commonly found words to the objects and ideas that they represented. Furthermore, our app would have a similar effect within individuals that are mentally impaired. Oftentimes, students that have mental impairments or cognitive developmental delays do not have access to a curriculum that is crucial to their academic success. As such, this gap in content and education needs to be provided through auxiliary resources. We designed our app in hope for it to serve as a means to educate these mentally impaired students and enhance their progression, while also serving as a challenging and fun game. We aimed for our app to be able to address two major issues within our community and school and improve student’s understanding of English, particularly for aspiring-English speakers and young children with mental impairments. These issues and their commonalities inspired us to create an app that helped to educate its desired audience but was also fun to use. We decided to use a matching game since it appeals to young children and can prove to be a competitive and immersing game, while still educating the player and improving their English skills.”
   PlanIt:When asked what inspired the creation of PlanIt, the students said, ”We’re sure that everyone has struggled to find the motivation to stay on task. With TikTok, Instagram, and Twitter, it’s harder than ever to keep focused. We realized that with the effects of social media, more and more students are struggling to complete their coursework while balancing other activities, especially after the pandemic. Students don’t typically use regular planners because there are no incentives to keep track of daily tasks; it takes organization and effort to use a daily agenda. However, now that students are busier than ever, an increasing number of them are forgetting about assignments completely! We want to change that. By making tasks into a fun game, every completed task is rewarded. When creating the app name, we considered a lot of options, including Planly (a reference to other apps like Bitly), Plainer (a pun on the fact that the planner starts out plain), and PlanMe (a reference to the idea that you are planning your events). However, we thought PlanIt was the perfect name to make our app planet-themed.”
   Chow:When asked what inspired the creation of Chow, the student said, ”My parents would often complain how my sister and I never eat the groceries we want, letting them sit in our fridge until thrown out due to expiration. After being yelled at by my dad one day, I figured that if there was something to remind me to consume these items beforehand, I would not get into trouble with my parents. In short, my parents’ frustration with throwing out food helped me create Chow.”
   School Project:When asked what inspired the creation of School Project, the student said, ”I was inspired to create this app by my Computer Science Teacher. I made this program for my AP project, however, I expanded on it for this project.”
   Pirate Physics:When asked what inspired the creation of Pirate Physics, the student said, ”I noticed that many of my classmates were having a hard time learning “projectile motion” physics. Since many of them love video games, I knew that creating a physics based video game would make learning the topic fun/easy. ”
   Foodfreedom:When asked what inspired the creation of Foodfreedom, the student said, ”My dad has a failed startup for a food-related app. He was trying to create a way to make custom food from local chefs, and they would post on his app, and he would ask consumers to sign up for custom food. He put a lot of effort into it, but it failed due to funding issues. I thought I could re-use some of the code he built and take his help in developing this app. I have also seen some students in my school feel insecure about food and wanted to do something about it. After many discussions with my parents during middle school and early high school, I created some basic screens and developed this app which is still in the initial stages. When COVID hit and I felt there was even more of a need for this kind of app.”
   Flourish:When asked what inspired the creation of Flourish, the student said, ”Many teens, including us, aren’t actively being taught the skills that we featured on this app, so we feel like we are entering adulthood unprepared. We know that these skills are necessary for life and we wanted to make it easier for young adults to learn in an easier way. Without being taught, we often find the need to self-teach, rely on parents or guardians, or simply learn about these things “the hard way” which could impact our level of success in life. There is a multitude of resources online, but this can often be overwhelming for one person to handle. Sometimes, it is also hard to distinguish between reliable and non-reliable resources. ”
   Schedulr:When asked what inspired the creation of Schedulr, the students said, “All the members of our team are aspiring entrepreneurs who want to change the world for the better in the future. In the past years, we’ve seen a trend of the rapid growth of many new startups, specifically tech startups that have sparked our interest. Since marketing a product efficiently is oftentimes as important (if not more important) as the product itself, we wanted to create an app that helps businesses, and specifically small startups to manage and take control over their social media presence.Small businesses are often confined monetarily and with relatively small teams, so it is easy to lose track of the most versatile and cost-effective form of marketing: social media. In fact, 97% of businesses use social media to increase sales and reach their target audiences; but this process is tedious, especially when there are so many factors to consider such as which platform to post on, which hashtags to use, when to post, and more. Many small businesses currently don’t even attempt to use hashtags either, which is a missed opportunity as they are essential to discovery on social media.That’s when we had the realization: an app that combines all of these features into one intuitive user interface to simplify the process for small businesses to take their online marketing to the next level: this was the birth of Schedulr. We talked to small local businesses and our peers to conduct market research; all of our sources affirmed that our approach to this problem would be effective in improving their workflow and eventually the success of their businesses.The implications of Schedulr go beyond small businesses as well, as it can be used by influencers and even the common social media user as well. Although our original intent was to help small businesses, we realized that both influencers and social media users often post the same post on multiple platforms just as small businesses do. This further increased the versatility of our app as we realized that the market pool for our app is huge.Being aspiring entrepreneurs, we all will have to work through similar problems in the future. This was an enormous catalyst in choosing to make Schedulr, as we would not only be able to help millions of others in dominating the social media scene but also help ourselves when it comes to our own businesses down the line.”
   Career Exploration:When asked what inspired the creation of Career Exploration, the students said, ”We were inspired to create this app because we were facing difficulties thinking of which high schools we wanted to attend that would help us with what we wanted to do later in life and we wanted to know more about how to achieve our goals.”
   myRx:When asked what inspired the creation of myRx, the student said, ”When my diabetic grandfather was sent to the ER after a severe drug-to-drug interaction, I knew that there had to be a solution that could prevent this from ever happening again. After this event, I was left with a deep impression as one of the geriatric physicians informed me of his concern that many older adults are taking many drugs and they are often concerned about the potential interactions and medical complications. I soon realized that there was no readily available technology in the market that could simplify the prescriptions my grandfather was given through an accessible medium. So, I created myRx. My passion for medicine and computer science inspired me to take on the challenge and create this app using artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms. My goal was to create an easily available smartphone app to assist doctors and caregivers in checking any potential food or drug interactions in order to allay the worries of many older patients who are taking many medications at once, and to lessen the strain on them.”
   ClassTranslate:When asked what inspired the creation of ClassTranslate, the student said, ”At Buffalo Creek we have Ukrainian students that know barely any English, and we were having a hard time using popular translation services to communicate with them. After a few days of using these services, I came up with the idea with my parents and teacher to create an application to solve our problems, and so I did! One day while I was still working on the app, a popular translation service went offline on the school’s internet. Hearing this, I launched my app and was able to talk to him and tell him what he needed to do!”
   VisionBound:When asked what inspired the creation of VisionBound, the students said, ”Diabetic retinopathy is a complication caused by an existing history of diabetes/diabetic symptoms that can slowly deteriorate a person’s vision and can even lead to partial blindness. Often this diabetic complication can be treated by timely management of the condition and/or modern laser eye treatments/surgery. However, this treatment of diabetic retinopathy cannot completely cure the disease and, when left untreated, its effects seemingly take on worse results. These severe cases are often seen in developing nations where general access to medical testing is bleak with most patients unsure of their severity until physical implications become apparent. In fact, 79% of the adults with diabetes reside within low-to-middle income nations and serve a major risk of joining the estimated 93 million people worldwide suffering from diabetic retinopathy.  Without significant medical testing, which can often prove expensive, and local ophthalmologists, this population is the most at risk of developing blindness and suffering the consequences of vision imparity. In this sense, the recent development of low-cost neural networks as a means of detecting early stages of diabetic retinopathy has become a much-needed solution to centuries of unknown suffering as a result of this complication.”
   FAIK:When asked what inspired the creation of FAIK, the student said, ”As a high school student engaged in classroom and hallway discussions, I came to realize that topical debates are quite baseless when the fact base itself is being debated. It is no secret that social media and news sources are littered with everything from highly biased news stories to totally fake news. Trust in the news and media is foundational to a functioning democratic society. I’ve been troubled by the wave of biased and manipulative news, both in my own personal discussions and with the broader societal challenge. This has inspired me to create a solution. AI unlocks the potential to identify bias in media at scale, and a social element opens up the door to launching a movement that will make the fight against fake news fun and challenging.”
   Basal Metabolic Rate:When asked what inspired the creation of Basal Metabolic Rate, the student said, ”Since I’m really into fitness and having a healthy lifestyle, I believed this would be a great app to make.”
   Connect:When asked what inspired the creation of Connect, the student said, ”My primary inspiration behind creating this app were my grandparents back in India as I find they are lonely with no grandchildren or children around. The app solves this problem as it connects senior citizens with other senior citizens in the same area. While this may have been my primary inspiration as it led to the idea, I had other inspirations as well such as my interest in Computer Science. I wanted to see what I was capable of and wanted to apply what I have learned and continue to learn in an actual project.”
    Dictionary App:When asked what inspired the creation of Dictionary App, the student said, ”When I was tasked with creating an app for my AP computer science class I decided to create this dictionary app to show my classmates how often words are used without searching up every word on google.”
   Blackhawk School Security:
   Speed-Teach:When asked what inspired the creation of Speed-Teach, the students said, ”We were inspired by the fact that many teachers need to quickly do something. Sometimes the internet goes out and they need something to work offline.”
   College Cartographer:When asked what inspired the creation of College Cartographer, the student said, ”My own research in searching for the college I wish to attend in the future inspired me to create this app. During my personal search, I found that information about colleges was often scattered across multiple websites. Furthermore, information was often also written in a confusing manner. The combination of these factors made it very difficult and tedious to gather a full set of information about a prospective university. Because of this, I decided to create College Cartographer. I thought that by consolidating relevant college information into an intuitive source I could help other students searching for and comparing universities.”
   The Vent Box:When asked what inspired the creation of The Vent Box, the student said, ”My own self problems with my emotions inspired me to create this app for others.”
   TechDetect - a Facial Detection Based Attendance Solution:When asked what inspired the creation of TechDetect, the student said, ”My mother is a college teacher, and she constantly talks about how her students will find creative ways to get around her school’s mandatory attendance policy. From signing others’ names to falsely calling “here!” the students always got away with it as it was too much work for the teachers to track all 200+ of their students down. As a result, I came up with the idea of TechDetect, using facial detection from computer vision, I have created a python application that can combat this, using students’ faces as a way to check themselves in each day.”
   DNAImpute:When asked what inspired the creation of DNAImpute, the students said, ”First, we’ll discuss why we created a DNA imputation algorithm. The sequencing of genomes has helped researchers gain an accurate understanding of the biology of various organisms. However, due to the fragility of DNA, current DNA sequencing methods are not completely accurate and data is prone to be degraded, thus resulting in lost data. Due to these gaps in DNA data, researchers are unable to analyze genomes to their full extent. Some models and tools have been created for DNA imputation that are able to predict what DNA base pairs would be present in these blank spaces. Current methods are however, not entirely accurate and require supplementary data, apart from the raw genome data, to generate accurate predictions. This is why we attempted to create an imputation model using machine learning algorithms that works solely on genome data of the target organisms along with some reference organisms that are closely related to the target. Although our algorithm worked extremely well (>85% accuracy), we wanted users to be able to visualize the imputations and how they came about. Thus, we created a web app in which users can play through each prediction while viewing pre- and post-sequence data and viewing Levenshtein distances (our metric for DNA sequence similarity). We accomplished this in our interactive web app and were also able to add a sign-in feature, so that users could store their data in their accounts and view reports, logs, and statistics for each imputation.”
   Sentimental:When asked what inspired the creation of Sentimental, the student said, ”As a person on the autism spectrum myself, I have often struggled to understand the nuances of many tense situations and emotional discussions and have found it challenging to find the appropriate reaction. I knew that many others who were autistic or neurodivergent shared similar experiences, and I started thinking about ways to help those who faced the same problems as I did by using technology and computer science.”
   Safeology:When asked what inspired the creation of Safeology, the students said, ”Our inspiration to create Safeology roots from the many dangerous incidents that compromised school safety over the last few years. In fact, some of these incidents occurred in our own county. As a result, the confidence students, parents, teachers, and staff have towards our school’s security was negatively impacted, and many parents are starting to worry about their children’s safety. With more research, we found out it was an important issue throughout the country, and its solution was yet to be found. With our desire to protect school children and keep them safe and rest assured, we took no time to get started on our submission. We created this app to ensure all schools are a secure and comfortable learning environment for everyone.”
   Coexist:When asked what inspired the creation of Coexist, the students said, ”When one moves to a new town over or even across the country, one may struggle to find a church that feels as comfortable as their previous place of worship. Our team was inspired to create this app because of questions about finding a place of worship tailored to one’s religious preferences when moving to a new community being commonly posed among the people of our community in conversations and neighborhood discussion panels. This is where Coexist comes in. We noticed a lack of this resource and wanted to make the transition of finding one’s faith as easy as possible and accessible to everyone in a community. We were also inspired by the diverse beliefs and communities on the University of Georgia’s campus which is close to where we live. While our app is accessible to a larger area, we imagine our app to be a great resource for people who attend the University of Georgia from all over the country and even the world. We hope Coexist can match its users to places of worship and make moving to a new place just a bit more welcoming and convenient!”
   timely:When asked what inspired the creation of timely, the students said, ”All three of us have close family members that suffer from ADHD and other similar attention span disorders. At a young age, we watched them struggle with starting and completing tasks on time in addition to hyper focusing and being unable to manage time appropriately. Therefore, we were inspired to develop a user-friendly yet aesthetic design that would allow our family and others constrained by the educational barriers of being an ADHD student to form a better sense of time management, a skillset highly valued in today’s world. We made sure to carefully choose everything down to the details, such as the colors and icons being made simplistic to make accessibility as easy as possible so that our app can reach the widest audience it possibly can.”
   Wishi:When asked what inspired the creation of Wishi, the students said, ”With the rise of the digital age, the way we communicate has shifted. Most socialization takes place online, with the new generation always on the screen. We get it. We are a part of it. Consequently, always being on technology has degraded our social skills, making us better at talking to people through a screen than face-to-face. While cutting out the online portion was an option, we founded Wishi as a marriage between the physical and digital social spaces.The purpose behind Wishi is to eliminate the awkwardness when meeting new people that follow us, and many other teens. Each of Wishi’s functions on Discord are built to be conversation starters for all types of people, whether you know them online or in-person. With just a simple game of Truth-or-Dare or solving riddles, you can get to know the people around you, bringing users closer together through the power of coding!”
   Guam 360 Tour:When asked what inspired the creation of Guam 360 Tour, the student said, ”My awesome robotics teacher and the beautiful cultural history of Guam.”
   'Imi loa:When asked what inspired the creation of ‘Imi loa, the students said, ”The inspiration for our app was wanting our home to be more represented in the media. Growing up many of us didn’t know about Hawaii’s challenges until middle school. We hope our app will make this knowledge accessible to the younger generation. We were also inspired by the winners from last year’s congressional app challenge. Their game was really cool and the fact that they came from our school made us feel confident that we too could accomplish what they did.”
   ECO SIM:When asked what inspired the creation of ECO SIM, the student said, ”I struggle with this topic in my high school biology class. I knew that I probably wasn’t the only one. Once I understood ecology and its role in our world, I wanted to create a game to help other people understand this tough topic.”
   Guess The Periodic Table Element.:When asked what inspired the creation of Guess The Periodic Table Element, the student said, ”Back when I was taking chemistry in junior year, I remember seeing my classmates struggling to find the elements in the periodic table, so I wanted to make something to help them learn them and have fun at the same time. By using this app people will not only have fun, but also be able to learn the elements including name, atomic mass, group and atomic number.”
   WeRecycle:When asked what inspired the creation of WeRecycle, the student said, ”I created WeRecycle because I believe it’s essential for everyone to understand the importance of taking care of our environment. My goal with the app is to promote good habits of sustainability in the next generation. I also know that learning about climate change can be difficult for kids. It’s a subject that is constantly evolving and it includes statistics and predictions for the future that may be daunting or overwhelming for kids. WeRecycle’s content and format is designed with this in mind. Each slide has one point that is as simple and as easy to understand as possible, and all of the content is divided into four manageable and specific lessons/modules. I also believe that this format is good for teaching anything online, not just recycling. Having interactivity and games at the end of each lesson gives people a fun way to test their knowledge or catch up on anything they missed throughout the module.”The Congressional App Challenge smashed previous participation records in 2022. All told, 9,011 students registered for this year’s competition – creating 2,707 fully-functioning apps for 335 Members of Congress across 50 states, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Mariana Islands, American Samoa, and the District of Columbia. This year’s competition set the record for most student registrations, most apps submitted, most apps per district submitted,and most districts receiving over 20 appsThe wildly successful competition continues to impress upon House Members the importance of computer science education and the need to develop a pipeline of diverse, domestic STEM talent.  
   Volleycube VR:When asked what inspired the creation of Volleycube VR, the student said, ”When I first started creating Volleycube I was mainly thinking about those who have access to Virtual Reality Headsets but do not have the best living conditions to the point where they can go to their local park and play volleyball, let alone go to the park or have any parks to go to. With this in mind, I decided that I wanted to try to create a fun experience for those who could not experience volleyball in real life.”
   SkyRobotics:When asked what inspired the creation of SkyRobotics, the student said, ”When talking to elementary schoolers and former First Lego League participants, even those that succeeded in robotics competitions and were good at coding ended up not liking robotics due to how finicky the robot was and how code never seemed to really take shape in students’ minds, staying as something abstract rather than a real-world and concrete idea. That’s why I wanted to create an application that’s capable of reaching everyone, even elementary schoolers without access to computer labs or powerful computers, and that removes the consistency problems within robotics so that robotics stops being frustrating and inaccessible. SkyRobotics solves this problem by using a website, rather than dedicated software, to code the robots, making it accessible and easy to use by combining it with fully custom-made robots that use sensor feedback to stay on course. After creating the app, I demonstrated it in front of 45 elementary school students, about 12% of whom were experienced in robotics and technology. 41 of the students found the experience entertaining, and I even received special feedback about how students started to enjoy designing code and building new projects because of how the robot brought the code to life. I hope that I can demonstrate the app in front of even more students and bring a love for robotics and coding to even more people within my community.”
   Pocket Constitution:When asked what inspired the creation of Pocket Constitution, the student said, ”Youth voter turnout has been consistently lower than for other age groups despite many political issues affecting my peers. Though there are many reasons for this, I think two of the main ones are ignorance and indifference towards politics. Many teenagers simply do not know a lot about how American politics works and the topic is often overlooked in schools. To battle this problem, I transferred the Constitution to a medium that my peers would be familiar with and would find engaging – a phone application – while also adding interactive and well-designed educational elements to it in addition to the actual text. I hope that this material, combined with links to nonprofits that encourage the youth to get involved with politics on all levels, will contribute to solving the problem of youth underrepresentation in the political arena.”
   Negative Headspace:When asked what inspired the creation of Negative Headspace, the students said, ”While things have certainly improved with time, there are still countless issues throughout the world that must be rectified.  Activism and volunteering has long been an emphasis in our high school careers, but we wanted to go beyond the scope of our hometown.  While it is only the first step, raising awareness across the globe is vital to fixing these problems, and we felt it important to do our part.”
   QuizMania:When asked what inspired the creation of QuizMania, the students said, ”While there are many different quiz sites like ours, they have some good things and some bad things. We saw this and wanted to make the best quiz site that we could so we incorporated many good things from all of these sites, tried our best to have as little of the bad things, and of course, we added many unique and original features. Also, many of our favorite quiz sites have locked interesting features behind paywalls, so we wanted to make a free version and learn how these types of sites worked along the way.”
   DHS Club Directory:When asked what inspired the creation of DHS Club Directory, the students said, ”At the beginning of the school year the announcements are always riddled with announcements about what clubs there are and when they meet. Because of the confusing nature of these ways of getting across information, many kids aren’t sure about which clubs they wish to join. The DHSAR is an easy and organized way to gather information about clubs.”
   Paws 4 A Cause:When asked what inspired the creation of Paws 4 A Cause, the students said, ”As avid volunteers at our local animal shelter, we began to see firsthand the struggles staff go through trying to manage everything and everyone. Part of our job as volunteers is to organize supplies and try our best to alert staff when certain items are out of stock – which is oftentimes much too late. The animals already go through enough hardships of having to live alone in a kennel without a true place to call home; the last thing they need is to go without the necessary resources to maintain both a physically and mentally healthy lifestyle. After noticing this issue ourselves, we asked one of our lead staff members if they felt it was a legitimate problem. The look on her face itself gave us everything we needed to know; seeing her face drop, the exasperated sigh escaped her mouth, and a faint radiance of embarrassment immediately struck a chord in our heart. The people who are running this organization are doing this purely out of the kindness of their hearts, with no monetary gain or even much recognition. They should not be subject to the pressure of feeling responsible for managing every item, every animal, and every person with zero assistance or structure. We knew we needed to come up with a solution to improve both the lives of volunteers and animals in order to keep this amazing shelter alive. We wanted this resolution to help multiple animal shelters across the country stay in business, and even inspire other shelters to open up with this assistance. There are thousands of homeless animals who need love and care, so with this app we could create a resource to assist those interested in creating their own shelter. It can be extremely overwhelming to manage supplies, people, and animals, so this invention would help eliminate some of the pressure. Additionally, we realized that there was no easy way for people who may not want to volunteer at a shelter to still help. People who are interested in donating don’t understand what exactly their money will go towards, so there isn’t much of an incentive. We wanted to create a way for the shelter and the public to come together to make a difference.”
   Bismillah:When asked what inspired the creation of Bismillah, the student said, ”After taking part in a coding summer camp,  I realized that I could use coding for good, not just to have fun. Since I am a Muslim myself, I know a lot of the struggles other Muslims and those assumed to be Muslim may face. Islamophobia is an issue that is very close to my heart. I also know how scary it can be walking around with a headscarf because you never know if someone will randomly commit a hate crime towards you on the street. All these things inspired me to code an app raising awareness about Islamophobia. Since representation in the media plays a large role in how Muslims are perceived, I focused on advocating for better representation and highlighting Muslim creators, artists, business owners, and more.”
   class tracker:When asked what inspired the creation of class tracker, the student said, ”I took a lot of time to communicate with my school counselor and sometimes there were miscommunications and misunderstandings. I wanted to make it easier for students to track their credits without having to take time to email their counselor every time.”
   FRA - Facial Recognition Attendance:When asked what inspired the creation of FRA – Facial Recognition Attendance, the students said, ”The main inspiration to create this app was our computer science class. In computer science, everyone would arrive on time, but it still took several minutes to mark everyone’s attendance. When people sat in the wrong seats, sometimes there could be a faulty absence, or someone is marked tardy although they did show up on time. If we put a camera by the door and monitored who walked into the class, we could automatically detect and mark the people as attending, or tardy, depending on when they showed up.”
   Mental Matter:When asked what inspired the creation of Mental Matter, the students said, ”We have many students in need of Mental Health assistance in our school. Our school counselor cannot possibly address all of the needs every day. We created an app that our counselor can use to check in with all students or a specific group of students she defines as potentially high risk. The app will include a form that will provide data for our counselor to track student progress. The app will also incentivize student checks ins and offer prizes to help students check in on a regular basis. The app will also provide helpful resources that students can utilize outside of school.”
   Job Foundation:When asked what inspired the creation of Job Foundation, the student said, ”The Job Foundation is an organization in the Cedar Valley that rewards students with money when they do well in school. This app will help them keep track of how the money awarded to students is spent as well as help students keep track of how much money they have available. I’m also currently taking programming classes so this was a great opportunity to learn more about programming languages for me. Since code.org is JavaScript, it was nice to be able to mess with a new programming language and learn more about it, since I’m mostly familiar with Python.”
   ratspots.com:When asked what inspired the creation of ratspots.com, the student said, ”I am a good player in Apex Legends and I wanted to show people ways they can improve. I also wanted to improve, and the process of finding new ways to gain an advantage has helped me as well.”
   Stock Market Learning Game:When asked what inspired the creation of Stock Market Learning Game, the students said, ”We (Myself and Carter Marovets) wanted to help students learn about finance and investing from a young age. So, when we heard about the Congressional App challenge, we coded an application that would teach students to code in an enjoyable interactive way. It was really hard and we almost gave up along the way, but we did it from almost no knowledge of code. I know a basic amount of python but wasn’t ready to create an app on it, hence our choice to use block. Even if we don’t win, I hope to publish and better our app, so as to teach others about the stock market and financial decisions.”
   Mental Health: Teens:When asked what inspired the creation of Mental Health: Teens, the student said, ”I am a teen so I know how hard it can be!”
   Road Trip Trivia:When asked what inspired the creation of Road Trip Trivia, the student said, ”My inspiration for this app was my family! We like taking road trips and playing various trivia games; my inspiration was to combine the two for a fun game to play on road trips. I also wanted to share that joy with other families or friend groups who are looking for a fun game to play on the road. I was also inspired by a travel bingo game I have previously created; I thought a trivia game would also be fun on the road.”
   P. A.T ( Parkinson's Assistive Technology):When asked what inspired the creation of P. A.T ( Parkinson’s Assistive Technology), the students said, ”I was inspired to create this app after watching my grandfather struggle with the symptoms and challenges that come with Parkinson’s over the last three years. Seeing the man I used to think of as untouchable begin to struggle with everyday activities really made an impact on me. I always knew I wanted to help people, but now I know that I want to help others with Parkinson’s. P.A.T is exactly my chance to do that. Created with the intent to ease the symptoms of Parkinson’s and improve quality of life for those with advanced stage Parkinson’s, this app will be able to help those like my grandfather.”
   CrowdIt.:When asked what inspired the creation of CrowdIt., the students said, ”All 3 of the developers have lived in Louisville all of their lives. A quintessential part of the city, aside from the luscious greenery, is the Ohio River. The river glistens from the cold days of Winter to the scorching days of Summer. We all remember walking along the banks of the Ohio and enjoying its beauty. Seeing pollution contaminate the river and depreciate it was a disheartening sight. The lessons of climate change and protecting the environment at school did not register with us because it was not something that we really experienced. It was as though we experienced the city of Louisville in a bubble. As we grew older, the grimier details became clearer. The plastic that clogs parts of the river; the foam bottles that litter our favorite parks and suffocate the dew of the grass buds; the smoke that created smog and smeared the city view. We began noticing these things and taking part of community activities that would allow us to make a change. We quickly realized that change relied on a few people. Even if hundreds were willing to participate in a community clean-up, how many would be willing to organize such an activity? Organizing events requires planning, outreach, and coordination skills. In short, our ability to clean up places in our city relies on the few organizers that were willing to initiate such activities. What if this could change? What if an event could be initiated, organized, and marketed in one app? What if we could consolidate these processes so that change could quite literally be at our fingertips? Asking these questions inspired us to create CrowdIt. Our unbridled passion for environmental remediation and our unwavering commitment to the city of Louisville, which has had an immeasurable impact on our identities, were the forces that birthed CrowdIt. Now, we hope that our app can reach all the residents of Louisville who look to take part in change and promote sustainable, clean environments. Eventually, we hope that our app can reach dozens of other cities and thousands of other people so that they too can take part in cleaning up their local environments and make a change. Change is an every crowd, we just need a way to unlock it, and this principle is exactly what CrowdIt was built upon.”
   sm;)e:When asked what inspired the creation of sm;)e, the students said, ”The problems associated with mental health have been a growing issue in our world for many centuries. Since the COVID-19 pandemic, however, the mental health of many has deteriorated exponentially. Suicide rates now, on average, are higher than they have ever been. Our application, sm;)e, aims to help its users better understand their mental health and cope with their crises. sm;)e works to succeed in this by providing users with encouragement and persistence from family, friends, mentors, doctors, therapists, or even strangers who struggle similarly. Our application functions to help people battling mental health issues find a way to keep going-sm;)e could serve as their light at the end of the tunnel or as a glimpse of hope.Each of us having firsthand experience with mental health struggles in some way, our group strongly believes an application like sm;)e could truly help make a difference in someone’s life. Any community as a whole would benefit from using our application. People around us everyday struggle with things others would never know.A person does not have to be of a certain age to struggle internally. Therefore, sm;)e can be used by people of any age, although viewer discretion for younger audiences is advised.”
   RA Allergens:When asked what inspired the creation of RA Allergens, the students said, ”Our application is the result of problems we have personally faced. When eating out, it can be nearly impossible to tell what foods have which allergens without asking the waiter or the cook himself. Especially with uncommon food hypersensitivities, this can be a serious hassle. It is unlikely that a diner or restaurant would have nutrition labels on their food so it is also a difficult situation for vegetarians and people who are avoiding certain foods for religious reasons. This is a much more serious problem than many would think and we feel as though it could be extremely useful to the people in the aforementioned categories. We have personally used the app several times and have distributed it to friends and family members who find it very helpful. There is no other application that assists you with this. It is estimated that nearly a tenth of the world possesses serious food hypersensitivities and over half of the world cannot eat some type of meat for personal, moral, or religious reasons. Many of these people struggle to eat anything they did not make themselves because they are unsure if it contains foods they cannot eat. I have had many personal experiences with this as well as seen people close to me suffer from the same thing. Our app solves this problem; no matter what food you cannot eat, it is almost guaranteed that our database tracks it to some degree. Even very vague and unknown disorders which most of the world is never exposed to are tracked by our application’s backend. If our database does not contain it, then it uses a very complex algorithm to parse the internet for your allergen or hypersensitivity. Because of these two things, you can be sure that the food you are eating will not harm you in any way and will not counteract your personal ethical and religious beliefs.”
   Automatic:When asked what inspired the creation of Automatic, the student said, ”During the season opener of my Sophomore baseball season, I collided with a teammate over a fly-ball miscommunication and fractured the Tibial Plateau in my left knee. Eight miserable weeks, isolated in my room and strapped in a brace from thigh to toe, left only thoughts and computers at my disposal. That never-ending period of time served as the commencement to my passion for programming and an inevitable unleash of creativity. By Junior year of high school, a computer lab full of brightly colored Mac-Book computers became my hot-spot. Then suddenly, on a random Tuesday, eating some Brother’s fried chicken in this computer lab, my vision came to fruition. What if the Apple Watch’s powerful motion sensors could recognize the wrist motion of a basketball shot?… and even train the users to become better shooters? In Summer 2022, I decided to work full-time as an elementary school camp counselor. Over this time, I saved up to purchase an Apple Watch for developing and received two advanced certifications in Swift and IOS development. My “pipe dream” had finally come to a start on July 8th, when I completed the very first prototype to analyze and observe specific changes and reactions in the motion sensors.For the next two weeks, I spent my time at the local playground, gathering shot samples for the application. One day, after making fifty consecutive baskets, a stranger at the park yelled, “You’re Automatic!”. The perfect title for the project emerged: Automatic.”
   WesIgn:When asked what inspired the creation of WesIgn, the student said, ”Art has been with me all throughout my life and was one of the only aspects that was constant. It has helped me embrace my identity coming from an immigrant family and when I would create artwork, it felt as though I could experience no prejudice or hate from the outside world. I wanted other people, including people similar to my cultural background, to experience the same thing too. I wanted my app to reflect how I felt; the art community always embraced me and celebrated my differences. To make this experience more interactive, I coded an art style quiz and an art education feature, which annotated paintings. I specifically used New Orleans artists’ works because I am from there and wanted to showcase the diversity of my hometown.”
   NotifyPub:When asked what inspired the creation of NotifyPub, the student said, ”I was inspired to create this app by multiple sources. Before participating in the Congressional App Challenge, I discovered the RSS protocol, which standardizes a way for keeping track of updates to websites. Around the same time, I learned of the problems that my school was facing in trying to notify many students and staff of urgent information. Upon learning of this year’s iteration of the Congressional App Challenge, I decided to provide a solution using RSS.”
   Positivity:When asked what inspired the creation of Positivity, the student said, ”In our community, mental health has been a widely stigmatized topic in conversation. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, many members and students of the community struggle with increased mental health issues, such as anxiety, traumatic stress, and depression as a result of the pandemic’s consequences. From 2019-2021, there was a significant increase in the percentage of people at risk for many mental illnesses. Learning to adjust to the current situation in times like this is difficult, especially when resources and discussion are not easily accessible and many who need help are too afraid to reach out. I wanted to create an app that would allow users in the Northwest Louisiana region to access resources and help more easily, and to educate people about the importance of mental health.”
   Today:When asked what inspired the creation of Today, the students said, ”The emotional state of people, especially students, has deteriorated significantly since the original COVID-19 outbreak. We have seen this in our school, as well as in the media, and we wanted to do something proactive to stop it.”
   Link-It:When asked what inspired the creation of Link-It, the student said, ”I was inspired to create this app because I like to study and sometimes I don’t like to study alone. And when I’m doing my homework I get stuck on certain things, so I think it would be beneficial for students to have either a study buddy or tutor to help them study better.”
   Seal of Approval:When asked what inspired the creation of Seal of Approval, the student said, ”I have been sailing since I was very young, and over the years have noticed more and more trash popping up on beaches and in the ocean. I’ve also watched recreational boaters use practices that are harmful for the environment around them. Sailing is my passion, and I want to share what I love with others. However, the ocean is quickly becoming more and more polluted. I want to have a clean resource to sustain future generations of sailors and boaters, and teach them to respect the environment around them. However, there aren’t many education opportunities to teach the public about how to best respect the delicate ecosystems they are in. More resources are coming out with guides on how to be an eco-friendly boater, but those are pages upon pages of information – not interesting for readers, and certainly not something people would have fun doing. If you are on the water, you’re going to need something quick and easy, and you want to keep things fun and engaging so people are interested in what your app is trying to convey. Also, the guides are a lot of paper waste.Keeping things digital makes things more simple and more eco-friendly – exactly the goal of this app. I also had experience with coding and wanted to apply my newfound skills to a real-world problem. I wanted to create an easy, fun way to teach boaters about clean boating practices. Sometimes all the rules and regulations, just in a packet or website, can be overwhelming and boring. By keeping things engaging and giving motivation to get to the end goal (the Seal of  Approval), the app teaches you without you realizing you’re being taught. I want to show people that conservation doesn’t have to be hard, boring, or unattainable. Even by taking a quiz, you can change parts of your life and make a lasting impact on the environment.”
   MathPal:When asked what inspired the creation of MathPal, the students said, ”In high school and as early as in primary school, we see students struggling to understand both simple and complex mathematical concepts for their respective grade. So we wanted to create a tool that could better explain specific mathematical examples in human-friendly fashion and also give human-friendly feedback.”
   SITS: Safe In The Sun:When asked what inspired the creation of SITS: Safe In The Sun, the student said, ”This past summer, I got my first sunburn, even though I made sure to put sunscreen on before I went out. On further investigation, I realized you must reapply sunscreen for it to be effective throughout the day. That is why I created the sunscreen portion of my app: to serve as a reminder for me and others to apply and reapply sunscreen.My inspiration for the water section was a little different. Being an athlete, staying hydrated is very important, but I always struggled with how much water I should drink. It was only until I went for a yearly check-up that my doctor said I was dehydrated. Baffled that I lacked something so essential, I created a water tracker that implemented exercise in its calculations.”
   MDAttractions:When asked what inspired the creation of MDAttractions, the student said, ”When I took a trip to Canada for a hackathon and I told people that I’m from Maryland, they either responded with “where?” or “oh that place with Johns Hopkins.” This caught my attention because as someone who’s lived in Maryland my entire life, I realized that I think similarly of other places. When I think of Canada, I think of Toronto and CN Tower, when I think of New York, I think of New York City and the Statue of Liberty, and when I think of California, I think of nice weather, Bay Area, LA, and Hollywood. As a local, I can confidently name several fun places to go within a ten mile radius of wherever I happen to be standing, but as an outsider, I can’t name more than three attractions in Canada, New York, or California. In addition, the wake of COVID-19 has left many small businesses struggling. With these inspirations in mind, I created MDAttractions to help visitors (and even locals) have a great time in Maryland!”
   Friday Night Lights:When asked what inspired the creation of Friday Night Lights, the student said, ”My inspiration behind making this app was that I really enjoy spending time with my friends on weekends. However, we often find ourselves in the situation of not knowing what we should do. Going to the mall to shop and getting lunch/dinner downtown are worn out activities. So, I started doing research on other things to do in the Annapolis area. I now want to share my research with other people who may be experiencing similar problems, in a fun way.”
   Masterpieced:When asked what inspired the creation of Masterpieced, the student said, ”I’ve always loved programming, and I jump at any opportunity to create something cool and exciting. When my brother reached out to me about an “art therapy app,” I set up a meeting with Maggie, a physician assistant graduate student at Stanford, and immediately became invested in the project after learning more about the idea that could help children in the hospital. Throughout the project, I was met with difficult challenges but by working with Maggie and other important people we were able to create Masterpieced and launch the app for kids to use.”
   Clima:When asked what inspired the creation of Clima, the students said, “Both Yixuan and I had wanted to make an impact to help end climate change but did not know how to do so. After learning about the Congressional App Challenge, we decided that we would do our own research and create an app to educate others on how to best solve climate change. We learned that when tackling climate change, government actions are not enough. According to UN.org, “commitments made by governments to date fall far short of what is required [to uphold the Paris Agreement]”. In tandem with the government, people need to take action to solve climate change. However, many are already aware of this but are unsure of how they can make a difference. To solve this problem, we created an app that provides metrics on each action a user can take so they can measurably see the impact they created. We also provided pre-made paths a user can take to start reducing their carbon emissions. This will provide a means for users to begin helping the environment, and help them get over that first hump.”
   Markright:When asked what inspired the creation of Markright, the student said, ”I’ve been using a bunch of different writing apps, like Notion, etc. However, I couldn’t find one that suited me, so I did as every programmer does and built my own! It’s a tool I’m proud of and I built it with me in mind – I’m definitely going to be using it to store all my notes.”
   FastUC:When asked what inspired the creation of FastUC, the student said, ”I was inspired to create FastUC because of the personal accounts I have heard about long wait times in our community, and the effects of long wait times I have learned about after researching the issue.An example of a personal account in our community is a citizen named Lisa who went to the ER at Good Samaritan in the town of Brockton, Massachusetts. She recounts her experience to the news: as she looked around, she saw people coming out of ambulances in stretchers and being made to wait, just like her. She saw many people walk out in frustration, not getting the care they needed. Lisa continues to state that she ended up staying in the lobby for around 12 hours before she received care that day. By the time they finished treating her, Lisa was hesitant to go back to an ER ever again. Forced to wait hours on top of hours to receive medical help, Lisa is not alone. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic wait times in emergency rooms are longer than ever. Clearly, wait times in outpatient care is a problem that needs to be addressed, and these personal experiences of citizens in my own state played a major role in inspiring me to try to solve this issue.In addition to this, the negative effects of long wait times also inspired me to do something about this issue. Long wait times don’t  just affect one group of people, but rather two: outpatient care systems and the patients. As for companies, as AJMC states, “results indicated that every aspect of patient experience correlated negatively with longer wait times”. Organizations lose business as patient satisfaction decreases. In terms of the effect on patients, a study by Science Daily states, “authors calculate that reducing emergency department length of stay by one hour, on average, could have potentially cut the number of deaths in this study in higher-risk patients by 558 and in lower-risk patients by 261”. Patients are negatively impacted as they are often put in fatal situations simply because they were not treated in a timely manner. These and numerous other negative impacts inspired me to take up shortening wait times in outpatient care as a focus area to hopefully save lives, and increase patient satisfaction.”
   FreeCare MD:When asked what inspired the creation of FreeCare MD, the students said, ”Why did we create this app? Finding free care can be very difficult, especially when it’s urgent and you or your loved ones are in pain. Anybody’s circumstances can change, we saw many negative impacts during COVID.  What if you/your loved ones can no longer afford medical insurance?  Where would you turn to for a toothache, ear infection or a pediatric appointment? Instead of not getting a checkup, or researching for hours on end trying to find a free care facility, we created an app that integrates all free medical clinics in the State in one app..   Our Inspiration: Our amazing friend Julia, who is a medical student in New York, is the one who inspired us to create this app.  She is one of many kind doctors that provide free care to those in need. We hope that our app connects the free care doctors/clinics with the uninsured/underinsured and help people in need stay healthy.”
   CommunAphasia:When asked what inspired the creation of CommunAphasia, the students said, ”Our team was inspired to create CommunAphasia because we wanted to improve the quality of life of people with aphasia (PWA). A friend of our team, was diagnosed with aphasia after experiencing a stroke. We observed the difficulty she had communicating with loved ones using the available technology. In an interview with our friend and her mother, she said, “At the beginning she couldn’t find the right words… so she would look at me and say ‘dad’.” We saw how difficult and devastating this was for her and her family. CommunAphasia was created with the hope of assisting others with aphasia to communicate with those they love. CommunAphasia was designed with two goals in mind: connection and recovery. We strive to help people with aphasia grow and sustain their social networks through an accessible messaging system and to provide helpful speech therapy tools. Regular communication with loved ones and social engagement have always been important to PWA to maintain and improve their skills. The challenge has been exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. During this time, connection with loved ones became more difficult with social distancing and limited face-to-face communication. Without in-person recovery, practicing exercises became difficult without someone to guide the PWA. This further motivated us to create this app. In addition, the ability to do at-home exercises and communicate with friends and family over long distances is essential. Exercises can be used in addition to in-person recovery. An app is an effective alternative and can be used anytime and anywhere, allowing the PWA to practice more frequently.We researched the existing technology and found that it was not sufficient for the needs of most PWA. It lacked important features such as a simple messaging system for facilitating communication and feedback to encourage engagement with the skill-building exercises and the ability to track progress. In addition, many of the apps available required a paid subscription to access all of the features, or an upfront cost of a few hundred dollars, leaving many PWA unable to access digital resources. We realized the critical need for an inexpensive, easily accessible, aphasia-friendly app while improving grammar and comprehension skills using exercises tailored to their needs. We noticed the importance of communicating with loved ones. We are passionate about providing an alternative therapy, helping PWA recover anytime and anywhere.”
   TrackMyRep:When asked what inspired the creation of TrackMyRep, the student said, ”I was inspired to create TrackMyRep when I learned that 63% of Americans cannot name their House representative and 47% do not even know what party their representative is a member of. This matched my own anecdotal experience; I found that almost all of my peers as well as all of the adults around me knew who the president was, many of them knew who their senators were, but only a small number knew the name of their House representative. This is concerning because if people don’t know who their representatives are, then they certainly don’t know how their representatives are voting on matters of policy. At the heart of the American democratic system is the principle that lawmakers will represent the views of the people and are responsible to the people. However, this is undermined when most people do not know how exactly their House representatives are working to help them.Many of the people I asked were well-informed when it came to politics. They knew what policies were making their way through the government as well as the names of some proposed bills. This led me to the conclusion that many people read the news and are generally interested in politics but just are not learning what their representative’s views are. It is easy to see why most people are not getting this info. For most topics, to learn your representative’s voting record, you have to pause reading your news article, open a new tab, go to congress.gov, search for the subject you want to know their representative’s opinion on, find a bill you are interested in, and then navigate through a series of additional menus to finally see how your representative voted. Most people simply do not have the time to do this lengthy process for every issue they care about. As I designed TrackMyRep, I aimed to simplify obtaining this information as much as possible. With TrackMyRep, it takes just one click to get a sense of your representative’s views on the main topic discussed in the news article you’re reading, and a second click gives you access to a plethora of information that allows you to specifically learn about your representative’s voting record on several different aspects of that topic.”
   Mental Circle:When asked what inspired the creation of Mental Circle, the students said, ”A personal inspiration for this app is our mom, who has been diagnosed with depression since we were born. We had seen the effects of depression and how she had struggled with this mental illness first-hand throughout the years as we were growing up. However, we didn’t know about her diagnosis until we were in our teenage years, and we were never really educated about mental health until we came to Andover. Andover was the first place where we were really exposed to the topic and conversation surrounding mental health. These conversations were what helped me make sense of my mom’s unpredictable mood swings growing up and taught us how to best support and talk to her about her depression. In a broader lens, although Andover taught us a lot about mental health, it also allowed me to learn about the importance of mental wellbeing and how prevalent mental health disorders are. Andover is one of the top high schools in the country yet the abundance of resources at our school does not sufficiently support the mental wellbeing of the student body. A higher percentage of students are suffering from depression, anxiety and other mental illnesses, while counselors are way overbooked and some students have to go on leave because their mental health cannot be sustained on campus. If such a large portion of students are struggling mentally at a high school with such an abundance of resources, the mental wellbeing of young adults in other schools and communities with lesser resources are even more at risk. We created this app with the hopes that all communities have a platform for young adults to connect and share their experiences with mental health in order to destigmatize the conversation surrounding mental health. We hope that through increasing the transparency of mental health and illnesses, young adults feel safer and more comfortable reaching out to others for help when needed. We hope that Mental Circle provides a space where people feel like they are a part of a community that is concerned about them and they feel that they have a solid support system.”
   Bathroomaccess.com:When asked what inspired the creation of Bathroomaccess.com; Google Play Store Android App: Bathroom Access, the student said, ”Like many homebound people during the pandemic, my grandparents turned to neighborhood walks for fresh air and exercise. But they found they couldn’t walk far from home, because they knew they wouldn’t have access to a bathroom. The reality for many people, particularly older individuals, is that they simply need to use the bathroom more frequently. This was challenging enough before COVID-19, but since 2020, private businesses have become even more reluctant or unable-to allow non-customers into their facilities. And even when they do, they often restrict it to paying customers. As I dug into this issue, I found the U.S. has eight public toilets per 100,000 people, trailing Iceland’s world-leading 56 public toilets per 100,000. As recently as mid-2022, the UN has said the lack of public bathrooms is “an ongoing sanitation crisis, and it highlights American inequality and marginalization.” I wanted to see how this inequality and marginalization affects my local community. I posted an online survey and received more than 200+ responses including painful stories of racial minorities being denied access even when they were paying customers, or horror stories of taxi drivers using bottles to relieve themselves on the go. Not only do we not have an adequate number of public restrooms, locating existing public restrooms is not easy – for instance, most municipal websites in the Greater Boston area include parks, bike trails and even water-filling stations, but not restrooms. Even when some city websites provide restroom information, it is hard to find. There is no standard information such as wheelchair accessibility or hours of operation. In addition, people in the greater Boston area live in one municipality but commute to work or have family in other municipalities. There is no single resource that can help these residents find restrooms in larger metro areas.”
   TrackSmart:When asked what inspired the creation of TrackSmart, the student said, ”For myself, it is sometimes hard for me to keep track of things in my life as there are so many things happening. At first, I tried note apps to keep track of things such as water intake and inventory but gradually, it started to get unmotivating to fill in my water intake and inventory which led to it being very disorganized. As this happened I thought to myself what would make it more appealing to consistently keep track of things I needed. I started coding TrackSmart with colors and visuals I thought would be aesthetic and more engaging. I added visuals such as a water droplet to my water tracker so it would be more attractive instead of dull. With all of that, I feel people who were or are in the same situation as me would be more motivated with a more engaging app than a regular notes app.”
   EZ Stats:When asked what inspired the creation of EZ Stats, the student said, ”I always find it easier to analyze and evaluate problems quantitatively (instead of qualitatively), so being able to easily find these parameters makes evaluating real life problems much more efficient.”
   tower defense:When asked what inspired the creation of tower defense, the student said, ”I saw a similar game and loved it so I wanted to do that too.”
   Beefriend:When asked what inspired the creation of Beefriend, the students said, ”Bees are an important part of ecosystems across the U.S., without them wildlife and plant populations wouldn’t be able to survive. It’s our responsibility to care for our local ecosystems and helping pollinator populations thrive is an excellent way to do our part, however finding information that’s personalized to your local bees can be a daunting task. We wanted to make taking care of the environment as accessible as possible, inspiring us to create Beefriend.”
   Restoring Mindsets:When asked what inspired the creation of Restoring Mindsets, the student said, ”Globally, it is estimated that 1 in 7 10-19 year-olds experience mental health conditions, yet these remain largely unrecognized and untreated. In recent years, many adolescents have experienced worsened emotional health and increased stress. As a high schooler and researcher, I have been working on improving mental health in my school community. I have published a research study with a team of high schoolers on the impact of self-care tools on loneliness in highschoolers and found significant results. This year, I have conducted an IRB-approved study looking at anxiety, loneliness, and satisfaction with life in my own high school and found that non-invasive tools can significantly help in addressing these issues. My friends have come and talked to me about how their stress and anxiety have led to eating disorders, hair loss, or increased feelings of drowsiness. This has only gotten worse through the pandemic and the increased amounts of school shootings and threats. I wanted to figure out a way for my friends could use an app at their convenience to help them take little steps toward improving their mental health. These issues that I was seeing related to mental health encouraged me to work with Novi City Coalition to create restoring Mindsets that look into the root of the problem and help teens cope with their emotions.”
   Paws to Learn:When asked what inspired the creation of Paws to Learn, the student said, ”As a shelter volunteer and cat-owner, I understand the importance of accurately reading the behavior of animals and respecting their boundaries. Being able to interpret animal cues helps greatly in pinpointing ways to improve the animals’ health and reduce their stress. With this goal in mind, I wanted to create an easy way to learn about this topic if people are new or refresh their knowledge if people are familiar with the topic. Either way, I hope that this app will encourage people to further care for animal welfare as they “paws” to learn.”
   The Ultimate Guide to Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning:When asked what inspired the creation of The Ultimate Guide to Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, the student said, ”After spending my summer at Stanford University for an Artificial Intelligence Course, I designed this app to cater for those who have interested or curiosity for AI and Machine Learning because with the berry advancing technology world, especially computer science, being ignorant and not knowing what certain things are come to a price. Hopefully with this app, I can fulfill the message of more of the younger generation to be focused in programming and the new computer science fields to open up a realm of STEM learning.”
   RexCycle:When asked what inspired the creation of RexCycle, the student said, ”I discovered that the top reason Americans say they don’t recycle regularly is a lack of convenience. Then there’s the fact that items put in recycling aren’t always recycled. It’s common for recyclables to get contaminated by dirty or improperly sorted things, which can ruin the entire load. And most people are often unsure of what goes into the recycling bin. This leads to non-recyclable materials being put in the recycling stream contaminating recyclable materials and compromising recycling machinery. There are a variety of items – including dirty pizza boxes, old clothing, hangers, plastic bags, aerosols, batteries, and electronics – that, if added to a residential recycling bin, will contaminate the entire batch of recyclables. According to this EPA data, recyclable plastics, glass, and paper accounted for 35.5% of the total landfilled trash in the U.S.; had they been appropriately placed, they could have been recycled. I could not find any app that could keep me engaged enough to consistently be conscious of my recycling so I made my own!”
   Smart Planner:When asked what inspired the creation of Smart Planner, the students said, ”Our country is a land of opportunities.  We spend more than 1.5 trillion dollars on school, and college education combined. There are many resources, both free and paid, which can be utilized by students and parents to succeed. Yet most of the students are unaware or make use of all the opportunities available to them.  This application combines three concepts namely: a purpose-driven life, SMART goals (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, and Time-bound), and the mastermind group concept of Thomas Alva Edison.  We felt that this unique approach will allow us to deal with multiple issues in our youth be it drug addiction, alcoholism, falling school grades, addiction to video games, lack of direction, etc. in a fundamentally sound and different manner.  A successful life journey takes a plan. A plan involves setting up goals, and a plan of action (milestones, tasks, appointments, evaluations), and does need to include helpful resources and support groups, to achieve those goals.  We wanted to create an application that would allow us to combine our goals with helpful, qualified resources and allow us to quantify or qualify success with the help of external evaluation.  It is also important to review goals and plans of action periodically with yourself, your parents, coaches, or teachers as our life is dynamic and things and priorities can change over time.  As per our research, we found that counseling, just for admission to a good college, can cost anywhere between $6000 to $100,000 (e.g., Ivy League Consulting).  This is unaffordable for most of us.  Our application also allows a student to build their brand and create a profile that is attractive to a good school.  In addition, we wanted to create an application that allows the complete development of students and not just formal education.  For this reason, we created the concept of a Life Plan.  Life Plans can include things like spirituality, co-curricular activities, sports, arts, languages, good habits, emotional development, social networking, or any other field that an individual desires.  We desired to allow a user to create a holistic view of life and then supplement it with useful resources.”
   Nutrate:When asked what inspired the creation of Nutrate, the student said, ”An issue I’ve struggled with in health is dieting, and knowing what foods I should be eating. I don’t have access to a dietitian, so I thought of an app that would help people like myself.”
   MisFire:When asked what inspired the creation of MisFire, the students said, ”Gun violence is a leading cause of premature death in the U.S. Guns kill more than 38,000 people and cause nearly 85,000 injuries each year. And in Mississippi alone, there were over 710 firearm deaths in 2019, averaging out at two people a day, and 64 of those deaths were children (age ranged 0-19), with numbers increasing every year. Our goal is to open people’s eyes to the very real impact of gun violence in American communities in an effective, proactive way, giving people a space to vent and create a sense of community, as well as giving resources on how to properly engage conflict and manage impulsive behavior. ”
   Island Jumpers:When asked what inspired the creation of Island Jumpers, the student said, ”I got inspired to make this app because of my urge to create games, and to try to make myself and others not quit before the end.”
   Kids Knack:When asked what inspired the creation of Kids Knack, the students said, ”We were inspired by seeing that many children struggled at the beginning of school. This made us see that we could help these kids be more prepared.”
   Vaidyo - BioChain:When asked what inspired the creation of Vaidyo – BioChain, the students said, ”My inspiration came from my parents’ struggles with storing, sharing and maintaining patient records on multiple patient portals. In the beginning, we thought about how to solve the problem, and we came up with Vaidyo Biochain as a solution. P.S. Vaidyo means a doctor.”
   Lively: Daily Planner and Journal:When asked what inspired the creation of Lively: Daily Planner and Journal, the students said, ”Especially in more recent years, teenagers and young adults often face mental health issues, feeling stressed and overwhelmed by the many events in their lives. On top of that, with the internet and advancing technologies, it’s easier to become distracted and harder to stay organized than ever. We ourselves face such challenges, finding it difficult to balance the numerous aspects of our lives, such as school, work, and activities. However, when we searched for and tested numerous lifestyle, mental health, and productivity apps to help us stay organized, we discovered that the apps available often served a limited purpose. When users try to incorporate such apps into their lives, they end up having to divide their thoughts and plans into multiple, disjointed pieces. To streamline and simplify the process of planning, organizing and reflecting, we created Lively, an all-in-one daily planner and journal app that supports teens’ and young adults’ fast-paced lifestyles. Our app provides users with a centralized place to store their thoughts and plans, helping them find balance and purpose in each day.”
   Dementia Doctor:When asked what inspired the creation of Dementia Doctor, the students said, ”We have both seen dementia ravage our families and communities. Still, the technology countering Alzheimer’s is very little compared to other mainstream diseases. An Alzheimer’s diagnosis often incites a sense of despondency. My own family experienced this hopelessness when my late great-grandmother’s cognitive state deteriorated so far that she couldn’t recognize her children or grandchildren, much less me. I remember visiting her in my grandfather’s home at the age of nine, a few months before she passed away. I tugged on her nightgown, asking her if she could fold origami boats with me like she used to, but all she did was blankly stare into space. Drew saw a similar experience with his grandfather. Where all he did was sit in his rocking chair and have to be entirely assisted by his grandmother. He could barely do simple functions anymore, not even remembering who his own grandchild even was. Drew’s grandfather didn’t get his dementia diagnosed fast enough and died before the official diagnosis was released. Since Alzheimer’s is currently incurable, all we could do was watch as their final chapter of life unfolded. The Dementia Doctor aims to chip away at this insurmountable disease by providing doctor’s faster, easier, and more reliable ways to diagnose dementia in patients. At least then, patients will be able to reverse dementia’s effects if they can or get treatment to alleviate their condition at the very least. Additionally, when Alzheimer’s is diagnosed at earlier stages, patients are able to enroll in clinical trials earlier, furthering Alzheimer’s research. The speed and efficiency that Dementia Doctor provides are what my grandmother and Drew’s grandfather desperately needed to get help as soon as possible, and it is hard to swallow that 6.5 million other people have to struggle as well. We were inspired to make a change, and we believe that Dementia doctor is a step in the right direction.”
   Found:When asked what inspired the creation of Found, the students said, ”Our inspiration for Found came from local news pertaining to the problems many people face with human trafficking, particularly in our indigenous communities. In our community, many people are trafficked and have limited resources, particularly teens and young adults, as well as the indigenous community.”
   SPELL-CADEMY:When asked what inspired the creation of SPELL-CADEMY, the students said, ”We were inspired to make SPELL-CADEMY because in elementary, we have weekly spelling tests, and they were brought back in seventh grade. We never had much trouble in the spelling tests, but we noticed that many of our peers and even our siblings had a lot of trouble learning how to spell. Thus, the idea of SPELL-CADEMY came forth.”
   Pixel Quest:When asked what inspired the creation of Pixel Quest, the student said, ”My inspiration for Pixel Quest came from my struggle with the pandemic. I personally noticed that I felt horrible and was in a constant state of exhaustion during my time in isolation, and many students in my school felt the same way. Our mental state was in decline and we had to struggle to complete our assignments with online lectures that had limited effectiveness. The last straw was when I saw national headlines that showed me that test scores have been in decline in the United States due to the pandemic, especially among elementary students. Children are among the most vulnerable in our society, so it is clear that we have to dedicate time and effort to helping students with their academics and mental health.”
   GoCitizen Connect:When asked what inspired the creation of GoCitizen Connect, the student said, ”I grew up hearing stories from my naturalized citizen mother: stories of her own journey as well as her mother’s (my Vovó) from their native Brazil to our country. As I grew older, I became familiar with the true statistics: According to the Urban Institute study, nearly 9 million LPRs living in America today are eligible to become naturalized citizens. Less than 10% of them seek to naturalize. Yet the benefits of citizenship are what drive this minority to achieve it: increased earnings, better employment, and, most importantly, the right to participate in our great democracy. Imagining their hardships, determination, and perseverance, and the joy of finally achieving their dream of citizenship inspired me to use my talents, knowledge, and passion to help other immigrants.I started GoCitizen from my passion to assist immigrants in learning U.S. History, Government and Civics and prepare for the Naturalization exam and interview. Three years ago, as a 14-year-old high-school student, I began developing the 12-week curriculum to be taught online, accessible to any student. I developed the program online during the pandemic, which was extremely well-received and benefitted many students continuing their citizenship studies. The program was approved and implemented by a local non-profit organization in Northern Nevada, ELL In Home Program, which I partnered with to provide instruction and effectively utilize funds for those who need help paying the citizenship application fee of $725 each.  To date, over 500 students have become U.S. citizens through the partnership. Yet as I taught the classes, another need became apparent. Students found it hard to prepare for the exam outside of the one day of class provided per week. I decided to create an app to assist them by localizing resources, study tools, and interactive exercises in one, handy platform. I took inspiration from the study habits of some of my students– some liked to listen to pronunciations, so I added audio cues, another found flashcards to be useful, so I created flashcards for every possible question. This app is another step in my goal of helping make citizenship a more attainable goal for immigrants not only in our community, but across the country. ”
   SchedU:When asked what inspired the creation of SchedU, the student said, ”As a current sophomore, I have to constantly juggle multiple college-level classes, sports, and extracurriculars all while maintaining a 4.0 GPA. These tasks have been very detrimental to my mental health, and recently, I’ve been noticing that I have been missing more assignments and feeling more negative about school and homework than I have in the past. I created SchedU to get rid of these problems, bring my grade up, and help me get on some of the habits I have been wanting to take on for a long time. Seeing that others at my school and on social media have had the same problems and desires as me, I decided to really put in the work ethic and aesthetically pleasing finish onto my free app so that they can better themselves too!”
   wxDispute:When asked what inspired the creation of wxDispute, the student said, ”As students who have been very involved in the computer science program, we have witnessed first hand the struggle that students have staying focused in computer science. We also saw how they struggled to understand the concepts. This inspired us to make a program that would allow students to study and learn computer science in a fun way, so they can stay focused. It is also designed in a way that makes it easier for students to understand the concepts. wxDispute is a program that teaches students computer science concepts whilst also quizzing them to learn more. As well as study from the comfort of their own home. By putting all of these resources in one place, we hope students will take this opportunity to learn programming and continue through the pathway. We hope to shape the next generation of programmers.”
   Green Plate:When asked what inspired the creation of Green Plate, the student said, ”I was inspired to create Green Plate to combat food waste, a prevalent issue. According to a study published in the American Journal of Agricultural Economics, the average American household wasted 31.9% of its food. Furthermore, the annual cost of this wasted food was estimated to be $1,866 per household – that accumulates to a total of $240 billion worth of food waste in the US.Food waste is not only a major issue because of the loss of food and money, but also because of its negative impact on the environment. When food is wasted, all of the energy, water, and resources used to produce and transport it is also wasted. Furthermore, when food goes to the landfill and eventually rots, it produces methane, which is a greenhouse gas that is even more potent than carbon dioxide. In fact, solid waste landfills are the third-largest source of human-related methane emissions in the US, according to the US Department of Agriculture.In addition, in my own personal experience, I noticed that my family sometimes had to throw our produce or dairy products away simply because they expired before we ever got around to incorporating them into a meal or because we never found a good recipe to use it in. I wanted to create an app that would help families like my own be more aware of how much food we were purchasing and be more mindful about our meal planning. In this way, we would be able to be economical and efficient with our food and help play our role in decreasing food waste worldwide.”
   Weather Map:When asked what inspired the creation of Weather Map, the student said, ”My older brother is an aspiring musician. He goes to many places to compete and he is currently attending college in Cleveland, OH. He plays the double bass, the biggest portable musical instrument besides the harp. As a result, either my dad or he himself has to drive to where he needs to go, as flying with a fragile and expensive double bass is quite complicated. They often tell me about the heavy rain, snow, sleet, hail, etc. they encounter when traveling a few states away or going to/from school. They wish there were some good apps to show the weather conditions along the way. Some of the apps we found on some weather websites were buggy, inflexible and not robust enough. I always wanted to come up with a solution for this problem because this problem cannot be only limited to a handful of people. Many people travel in their vehicles, and I am sure they all want to know the weather conditions along the way so that they can make a better judgment on when to leave and when to rest.”
   TalkingCivics:When asked what inspired the creation of TalkingCivics, the students said, ”We were inspired to create this app because we saw on the news multiple times for years how a large number of voters are uninformed. If voters don’t know about their government, their ability to make an informed decision at the ballot box goes down. We wanted to not only fix that problem, but fix it early. By giving students of all ages, particularly high school students, a tool to learn about civics, their knowledge about government when they vote later on will be greater. As such, their ability to make an informed vote goes up. We feel that informed voters are necessary to have a functioning government that represents the people and we believe our app helps people become informed.”
   New 2 U:When asked what inspired the creation of New 2 U, the students said, ”We were inspired by friends and family members who are constantly looking to donate outgrown children’s clothes to someone who would actually use them. Many people in our community do not know where to donate to ensure their items are put to good use, so our goal is to connect parents.”
   PlantThis!:When asked what inspired the creation of PlantThis!, the student said, ”I made this app because some people, like my grandfather, own very big crops that can quickly catch diseases. And animals like dogs can step into these kinds of diseased plants and get sick. Many people also live off of crops! Knowing whether these naturally grown foods are safe to eat is critical.”
   Myndful:When asked what inspired the creation of Myndful, the students said, ”All three of us have either had personal or familial experiences with mental health. Understanding different mental health topics can be difficult since there are just so many resources that exist that aren’t written in accessible language. We are all part of our high school’s mental health club. In this club, we discuss ways to destigmatize mental health and ways to increase accessibility to mental health treatment in the school and in the community. One thing that we have constantly discussed is that mental health resources and treatment options exist, but they are often hard to access. For example, our high school’s mental health page is filled with pages of resources that may be helpful, but they are too hard to navigate and understand so they don’t end up helping anybody. We became determined to change this.”
   Wild Blue:When asked what inspired the creation of Wild Blue, the students said, ”We were inspired to create the app because we realized that a lot of times, the things we hear about climate change don’t connect well with reality. Of course, everyone has heard that they need to recycle plastic water bottles, and that they should carpool as often as they can, but we often end up keeping this separate from our actions. This is largely because of the struggle to see how small actions affect the big picture. While it certainly is important for companies to act sustainably, individuals also contribute greatly to the world’s carbon footprint. By making this app, we hope to help users see that their small actions build up over time to create positive change.”
   Mela-No-More:When asked what inspired the creation of Mela-No-More, the students said, ”Melanoma is a common yet hidden skin cancer prevalent in the U.S. Although it is easily treated in early stages it can become deadly when allowed to advance. Because it can look very similar to a mole, birthmark, or scratch, many victims of melanoma do not realize that they may actually have melanoma. We created Mela-No-More in order to help those who may potential victims of melanoma recognize whether they have (or do not have) melanoma, as well as keep them informed about their current skin condition, environmental factors that can cause them to contract melanoma, and healthy habits to prevent melanoma in users in the long run.”
   Dermatect:When asked what inspired the creation of Dermatect, the students said, ”Dermal diseases are one of the most prevalent and prolific health epidemics that plague American society. Costing nearly $75 billion in medical, preventative, and prescription industries-according to the American Academy of Dermatology Association-the growing demand for dermatologists and dermatological care is only increasing. However, the extensive training required of experts has led to a shortage of dermatologists and has increased the wait time to an average of 32-35 days for an appointment to a 46% increase compared to a decade ago. On the other hand, some people may not even have access to these experts or the privilege of dermal healthcare. Regardless of the reason, undetected dermal diseases will only lead to harmful implications. While dermal diseases and infections can range in their pain or duration, they nevertheless impair the comfort of daily life and in some cases, physical ability; moreover, if left undiagnosed or untreated for too long, these diseases, while trivial, may become more severe. The desire to address these issues is what inspired us to create our app-a software designed to identify dermal diseases through uploaded photos of users’ skin. With a lack of applications in the current market to address this issue, we hope that our product will eliminate the problems of inconvenient wait times or transportation that could prevent the possibility of earlier treatment or identification. As these problems do not only pertain to New Jersey residents, we hope that this application will not only help those in our state but also those in the United States and around the world.”
   Shelter House:When asked what inspired the creation of Shelter House, the student said, ”I was inspired to create this app when I was volunteering at one of EKAM USA’s projects to help local New Jersey communities feed the needy during a food drive for the homeless. While making meals for our community’s homeless, I started thinking about how people became homeless in the first place. What could I do to help? After much research, I learned of the functional zero homelessness Bergen County had achieved, which is twenty minutes from where I live in Wayne, New Jersey. This is where I got the idea of connecting my community in order to solve homelessness, and when I could truly see the potential of awareness in solving homelessness . As a result, I visited several homeless shelters in and around my area. I began by asking questions about what causes homelessness and interviewing local homeless shelter directors, city council members, and community business leaders to learn what was being done. Recognizing that raising awareness about homelessness is the first step toward ending it, I started recording these talks so that I could share what I learned with others in our community. Once these videos were created, I began looking into ways to further help the homeless. I realized that it can be difficult to find and reach the various homeless shelters in New Jersey, which gave me the idea for this app. As a result, I began designing the app, with the primary goal of helping the homeless in any way possible.”
   Foodrop:When asked what inspired the creation of Foodrop, the students said, ”The inspiration for Foodrop comes from a personal anecdote. One day we finished eating dinner and it was around 9:30 pm. We then came out and decided to get donuts since Dunkin’ donuts were close by. We went inside and were shocked by the number of donuts left on the shelves: about 2/3 remaining. We weren’t worried at first but then after ordering our donuts, the employee told us I am going to throw these donuts out so you can take some more. This revealed a problem of food waste that we never had encountered before. On top of our personal experience, a few months ago a video on TikTok was circulating about an employee that was fired for exposing dunkin’ donuts food waste. Hence, we decided to make Foodrop.”
   Pupil:When asked what inspired the creation of Pupil, the students said, ”We were often frustrated by the official StudentVUE app, as it was slow to load and would redirect users to websites instead of showing content in the app. Our fellow students often echoed this frustration. We saw Pupil as an opportunity to improve the experience for ourselves and our fellow students, as well as a great project for learning how to develop iOS apps. ”
   Dolores:When asked what inspired the creation of Dolores, the students said, ”Our school currently uses a system of 2 logins, on 2 different educational systems, Bosque’s own website, BlackBaud, and a Google login system. The whole system is quite slow, and time consuming, and we thought it would be better to create an easy to use system of one tap to see schedules, or 2 taps to see grades. The name ‘Dolores’ comes from Bosque School’s front office lady, named Dolores. She does a ton of work for the students, and uses the slow Bosque system, and we thought that a revamped better version would be aptly named after the woman who does most of this work by herself with an old system.”
   Cholesterol Ease:When asked what inspired the creation of Cholesterol Ease, the student said, ”I was inspired to create this app because I wanted to make a resource published in research papers and used by my uncle to change his high cholesterol to an optimal level more accessible to the public. This summer, I read multiple articles and papers from health organizations regarding the Portfolio Diet and started analyzing the categories and components of this cholesterol-reducing method. As a high school student, I use apps everyday for multiple uses. Several studies have also shown that health apps promote behavior change and healthy outcomes, with more improvement compared to primary care alone. This was especially prevalent during the COVID-19 pandemic, where evidence-based healthcare apps were in high demand. On the App Store, I tried to search for cholesterol control apps but the apps were cholesterol calculators, cholesterol number tables, or low cholesterol recipes, with some apps even charging fees for only cholesterol data. I wanted to develop a free and user-friendly app to help people decrease cholesterol from diet. I hope that this app could be a good tool at health clinics to help patients. I am interested in ways to spread the strategy of using diet to help improve health conditions to a more personalized approach where the user can choose their preferred meal based on categories provided and become aware about additional benefits so that the app can be a resource that people use daily when deciding what they make for breakfast or eat for an afternoon snack. I think it is also important for everyone to know about the effectiveness of the portfolio diet and incorporate it into their daily lives because it can potentially be life-changing, considering that high cholesterol leads to higher risks of heart disease and stroke. I also know that many people frequently eat at fast food restaurants, so I included the risks of high cholesterol from these popular foods. Even though people may know that cholesterol may be dangerous for them, they don’t know the extent to which they themselves can take steps to lowering their cholesterol right from their own home through opening an app.”
   RateMyDrive:When asked what inspired the creation of RateMyDrive, the student said, ”As a 16 year old who is learning to drive, I want to help other students my age improve their driving skills so that the roads we all drive on are safer in the future.”
   Sit Straight!:When asked what inspired the creation of Sit Straight!, the student said, ”Your posture, the way you hold your body when sitting or standing, is the foundation of every movement your body makes and determines how well your body adapts to the stresses placed on it. Poor posture inflicts extra wear and tear on your joints and ligaments, increases the likelihood of accidents, and makes some organs, like your lungs, less efficient. Keeping proper posture is important, but it’s getting harder these days. Using computers and mobile devices promote poor posture as they make you look down at the screen in a stationary position for extended periods. With over 75% of Americans spending their days sitting at a desk staring at a computer screen, it is no surprise that more and more people are suffering from back pain and poor posture. I suffer from poor posture myself and while I am aware that I have bad posture, it is extremely hard to self-correct by yourself because you may not always be aware of your posture. I wanted to create an app that would serve as a pair of second eyes to remind people to correct their posture because I know first-hand how difficult it is to correct your posture by yourself. The ultimate goal of this app is to improve people’s quality of life and health through getting them to sit straight and properly.”
   FoodFinder:When asked what inspired the creation of FoodFinder, the student said, ”I was inspired to create the app after seeing the lack of education about food deserts on social media and the lack of resources for the people living in them. Many people often criticize people who live in food deserts for not choosing healthier food options because they do not understand how difficult it is to choose healthy foods when the nearest affordable grocery store is miles away. I wanted to aid people in need and show them that it’s not shameful to look for help.”
   Vigil.us:When asked what inspired the creation of Vigil.us, the student said, ”Early in 2022, news of the Uvalde School shooting was being covered all over the internet. I was shocked, horrified, and scared at how easy it was for a criminal to enter a school with a weapon. As a high school student, I felt like we were just sitting ducks waiting for a shooter to come into our building one day. I also felt enraged that almost nothing was being done to prevent shootings in general, not just in school, from harming more innocent people. However, articles started to surface with reports stating that the shooter from the Uvalde school shooting hinted that he was going to commit such a crime from personal anecdotes of his coworkers, friends, and relatives. I was surprised that not one of them reported this behavior prior to the incident and that made me realize that detecting signs of instability and violence was extremely difficult. Not many people would be willing to go through the trouble of contacting the FBI or the police station over minor suspicions. Thus, I decided to create an app that solved this exact problem: to make reporting suspicious people easy, anonymous, and detailed. I hope that with my app, more suspicious behavior will be reported and that more potential shooters will get caught before they get the chance to commit any atrocities.”
   Helping Hands:When asked what inspired the creation of Helping Hands, the student said, ”The homelessness crisis that has exploded in NYC for the past few years, as well as my personal experiences seeing homeless people on the streets and subways, or those hanging on barely, with no way to claw out of their hole, have inspired me to establish this app and website. There are also many who are overlooked/do not receive adequate aid, who are not homeless, but on the edge, and aid must also be provided to them or they could fall into homeless — by being proactive, we can prevent development of the crisis before it gets worse.”
   Student Tracker App:When asked what inspired the creation of Student Tracker App, the student said, ”What inspired me to create this app is that my peers and many other students struggle with remembering what homework activities they have to do when they get home. My app helps them out by keeping it all in one structured area. Also a situation, which I and many other students have went through, is not knowing an answer to a question and not knowing how to solve it. My app inspired me to include resources that can help these students out.”
   Haven:When asked what inspired the creation of Haven, the student said, ”The issues discussed through the app are problems that millions of women face on a daily basis. Especially with the recent overturning of Roe vs Wade, the discussion of women’s rights is even more important. Although we understand that our app isn’t going to fix the systemic issues against women overnight we at least aim to help a few people who are struggling and educate others on how to help those who are through providing access to resources without stigma or misinformation. Within this overarching goal is the hope to break stigma around periods, encourage more girls to engage in positive dialogue about their bodies, and to raise awareness about domestic abuse by helping to provide access to helpful websites to help people get out of those difficult situations.”
   Job Finder:
   CalendAIr:When asked what inspired the creation of CalendAIr, the student said, ”I have struggled with procrastination for as long as I can remember and I have seen almost all my classmates struggle with this same issue. One day I was browsing through my phone and I noticed that my school purchases a massive number of apps for us. However, I noticed that although All of these apps are amazing in providing resources for educational content, none of them target the foundation itself of a student’s education. We have resources for almost everything content-wise, but there is a great lack of resources for things like organization, procrastination, and mental health, all a crucial part of any student’s education. In order for a student to achieve their maximum potential, we need to address the roots of the problem, and there is a great need for these foundational resources, such as CalendAIr.”
   K-FACTOR:When asked what inspired the creation of K-FACTOR, the student said, ”While volunteering at a local medical office I realized how many hypertensive and kidney patients struggle to track their Sodium and Potassium in-take due to lack of information and no easy way to get it even when it is available; which was turning out to be potentially life threatening in many cases. It is hard to comprehend and calculate the ratio of Sodium and Potassium in the food (what I call the K-FACTOR) – which is extremely important to take into account in food.  Moreover, most of the time the nutrition information is in small print, making it hard for elderly population to read. I thought about this app to help people manage their Sodium and Potassium in-take in food in an easy to use manner.”
   Progress In Congress:When asked what inspired the creation of Progress In Congress, the students said, ”We live in the mid-Hudson Valley, a bright purple region of the country. Obviously, most kids in our high school are not old enough to vote, but we are interested in the political process. It seems like every possible political perspective can be heard in the parking lot, the hallways, the cafeteria, and on the ball fields. We know that our peers have come a long way since watching the animated short film “I’m Just a Bill” in fifth grade. As a diverse group of friends, we also realize that many of our peers are just cheering for their parent’s team during election season, and when the vote is over, they will disengage until the next election. One of the problems is that it is hard to focus on the important things through an attention economy that thrives on salacious headlines but is often lacking details that matter. Our teachers have taught us that if you want to get past the clickbait, you should go to the source documents.”
   Vultures of Emma:When asked what inspired the creation of Vultures of Emma, the student said, ”Vultures of Emma was created for my school’s STEAM 10 program in which each group picked an area of STEAM that they were passionate about. I was especially interested in web development and was excited to create a website to display some of the skills I had learned over the past couple of years. However, there was almost no one else interested in technology like I was so we had to improvise and combine interests. My group ended up with two members, me and Lidia Krylova. Lidia was interested in the vultures around campus, and I was interested in web development. Vultures of Emma is a direct combination of those two interests!”
   Tiger Connect:When asked what inspired the creation of Tiger Connect, the student said, “”
   Climate Change Guide for Kids:When asked what inspired the creation of Climate Change Guide for Kids, the student said, ”Climate Change is one of the world’s biggest problems and is worsening by the day. Since the Industrial Age, technology and inventions have led to an increase in the amount of greenhouse gasses released in the atmosphere, causing a rise in the average temperature of Earth. This has the potential for catastrophes, and people are already starting to see some of the negative effects. Even though this is a very important and urgent topic, I believe there is a lack of awareness. Most people, especially young people, don’t have sufficient knowledge about climate change. While some things are out of control for most people, there are actions and smarter choices that all people can take to help the environment. While doing research on this topic, I came to the conclusion that there is a lack of information directed towards and accessible by children and teenagers. It is essential for their younger generation to know about this problem. They are the future generation that will have to deal with the devastating consequences of climate change. Also, children are able to convince their parents and have a big influence on relatives, causing a greater awareness about this topic and research towards it. After conducting a survey among 150 kids in my middle school, I concluded that most kids don’t know what to do and how they can make a difference, while others are not aware of the problem and the consequences of their actions. The younger generation wants to help, but doesn’t know how. Therefore, I decided to create an app to educate the average middle or high schooler about how our actions are hurting our precious planet and how they can make smarter choices to help fix this overlooked problem. Children have to understand this topic so they can grow up making smart decisions and influencing others. For example, let’s assume that there is 75 million children in the US. If they each encouraged their family to take one less flight a year, that’s 137,250,000 tons of carbon a year in the United States alone being saved. With such a high upside, it is essential that people do what they can to help climate change, and educating children, the future generation, is a great way to do this.”
 Project H.O.P.E. - Helping the Oceans Preserving the Environment:When asked what inspired the creation of Project H.O.P.E. – Helping the Oceans, Preserving the Environment, the student said, ”The story in my video demonstration is based on my real life experiences: I recently went to the shore, and I was surprised to see so many plastic bottles lying on the beach. I wondered why people did not just pick up their waste and keep the beach clean. There were several easily accessible garbage cans, which were pretty close nearby, so the problem was not that people could not pick up the trash. It was their choice just to leave the beach dirty. I picked up some bottles to help clean up, but I realized if everyone just picked up a few bottles, the beach would soon be clean. We need to associate picking up litter with a positive, fun, experience. I wondered if a computer game which modeled positive behavior might encourage people to adopt that behavior in the real world. If people associate picking up bottles on the beach with the excitement and energy of a competitive computer game, would they turn picking up bottles on the beach into a real life game?  I did not want to create a game that was clearly an “educational” game, and I did not want the game to be a text based game which was full of statistics about ocean pollution, and just shouted at everyone to pick up trash. I wanted to create a fun way to get people to repeatedly pick up trash so that it would become a habit. I shared it with my family, but they are already good about picking up all their trash at the beach, so I could not tell if it had any effect on them. Next, I would like to share it with people who litter, to see if it has any effect on their behavior. Picking up plastic from the beach is a small action which can have significant consequences. If everyone just picked up a bottle or two this would have a major impact on the beach and ocean environment.”
   GlucoScan:When asked what inspired the creation of GlucoScan, the students said, ”My mother developed gestational diabetes which later transposed into Type-2 Diabetes when I was born; it was always a burden since I was the cause of her diagnosis. When I was given a chance to explore computer science, I knew the first thing I wanted to create was a device that can reduce my mother’s use of the pricking mechanisms (needle-intrusive methods). Therefore, I found a noninvasive salivary glucose method through programming and using the smartphone’s Bluetooth capabilities to detect salivary glucose levels. As my sister developed Type-2 Diabetes as well (from a familial history of Type-2 Diabetes and Prediabetes), I knew that launching the GlucoScan App was the only way we can monitor and actively track her glucose levels. Secondly, I also want to solve the diabetes prevalence in North Carolina. Along with the nonprofit organization I created (www.stemable.net), I want to help through actual medical means as well; the motivation to use GlucoScan in low-income communities will hopefully lower the progression of Type-2 Diabetes or overweightedness to prevent a continuous onset of this disease. Many friends and families of mine each year die from a lack of support from medical care providers or simply neglect their bodies because of how complicated complex glucometers can be, GlucoScan aims to remove this stigma and ease users into using GlucoScan for better access to detection services.”
   The Recycler 101:When asked what inspired the creation of The Recycler 101, the students said, ”I used to do a lot of research concerning the environment, and I got quite worried about what was in store for the future. I wanted to help make sure that our climate would always be around to sustain life, which means that we need to do our part.”
   Cygnus:When asked what inspired the creation of Cygnus, the student said, ”When I was a young child, I used to think about how the ecosystems on Earth worked. As I progressed to elementary school, I realized that the ecosystems on Earth are complex and can easily be dismantled due to human interaction (i.e. pollution). I then contemplated in my first year of middle school on how the ecosystems on earth are so complex, diverse, and fragile, and what the ecosystems of the celestial objects above us may look like. This brought me to the science of astronomy. I further researched the topic and found out about the different species of celestial bodies in the night sky and how they relate to each other to make an ecosystem. Later, I saved up money to purchase a beginner telescope, I, with my supplemental sky maps, tried to view at least 2 things that night. It was a cool December night, and I pointed my telescope to a funny-looking constellation named Orion. It’s probably the only constellation whose name applies to what it appears to be (looking at your Canis major). I pointed my telescope to where M42 was supposed to be and found myself looking at a mass of purplish-whitish globs in the night sky with a distinct trapezoid of stars in the middle. This was the beginning of my stargazing journey and encouraged me to complete the messier list by the end of the year. I later realized how much research and hard work (that many are unable to do due to time constraints or pure lack of interest) I had to do to accomplish my goal. This left me contemplating how I can make astronomy fun and enjoyable for the rest of the general public. Later on, in Middle School, I learned about computer science and dove into different programming languages, like Python, HTML, CSS, Java, and JavaScript, I later found myself most interested in web development, (HTML, CSS, JS). I later thought about making a website that can help budding astronomers across the state or by a far stretch, the nation with their astronomy goals, I later learned about the Congressional App Challenge and how awesome it is and decided to develop Cygnus, a stargazing app that helps the beginner and amateur astronomer pursue his/her astronomy goals and develop a love for astronomy.”
   Lookupp:When asked what inspired the creation of Lookupp, the students said, ”Every Sunday when I was in middle school, my neighborhood buddies and I would beg our parents for money, run out the door, fasten our helmets, and cycle to the nearby Keg n’ Egg restaurant for breakfast. The server would seat us at our normal spots, and we were completely absorbed in each other’s company.However, after we started high school, I observed a new trend at breakfast. We simply couldn’t put our phones down. We were right in front of each other, only a few feet apart, but not truly present. Our weekly conversations, which were previously filled with joy, laughter, and stories, have been replaced by quiet, isolation, and mindless phone scrolling. I no longer looked forward to breakfast as the months went by, and I felt increasingly alienated and lonely throughout the week. I wasn’t the only one who felt like I was losing people because of screens. My younger brother went through something similar. My teachers, like myself, had lost students, I noticed. It didn’t stop there; I’d go to any of my friends’ houses and ask their parents how they felt about it, and they were just as frustrated as I was. Both my brother and I spent nearly a year investigating dozens of apps and determining what to do to improve outcomes. Finally, I feel that limiting screen time is counterproductive in encouraging more screen-free people time. So, with the help of behavioral economics, the science of decision-making, I decided to create an app. As I built this app, my community encouraged me. Lookupp was named the winner of a regional social innovation competition for high school students. Dr. Elham Ibrahimi, a UNC Wilmington professor, and Dr. Larry Hodges, computer science chair of the North Carolina School of Science and Math (as well as the co-founder of two startup companies), have also agreed to work with me on this project. I was recently acknowledged as a changemaker when Taco Bell/Ashoka Ambition Accelerator chose Lookupp as one of the top 25 social venture projects out of 300 projects submitted nationwide. The monetary assistance I got from Taco has pushed me to move even faster. To put it simply, I truly believe that the current generation is being slowly destroyed by excessive screen time; it is analogous to digital cocaine. And, for me, contributing to this problem is an inspiration in and of itself.”
   Model Masters:When asked what inspired the creation of Model Masters, the student said, ”I was motivated to create this website because I wanted a place for me and my friends (who were all interested in model building) to share our work with each other in a permanent, structured way. Sharing a bunch of photos over text can get messy, and using an existing social media platform wasn’t going to cut it because I wanted it to have custom features specifically for models, as well as a community who was passionate about the same thing. In terms of existing applications that inspired me, I liked the feel of user-friendly sites such as Facebook, which is why I made all of the elements rounded and warm colored. I had also seen someone looking to buy a car on a website that I can’t remember the name of now, but it had used the color red a lot, which reminded me of the red spray paint often used in model construction.”
   Habit Cash:When asked what inspired the creation of Habit Cash, the student said, ”Upon my entrance into high school, I noticed that a lot of students around me struggle with productivity issues. After more research, I realized that this is a trend among every age group: roughly 80% of students and employees in the United States face a lack of productivity, and burnouts and depression can easily result from this lack of motivation. I also serve on the leadership team of several educational nonprofits with a total of 4000+ high school members, so I took a survey and discovered that an overwhelming majority of the students struggle with motivation and self-discipline. Since I saw a need for a motivational productivity-oriented software, I developed Habit Cash to combat the phenomenonSince users can directly earn money by doing the study sessions in Habit Cash, this is a huge incentive for them to study and work. Habit Cash makes studying less painful, and users will also be rewarded with achievements and a community to study with. It can increase anyone’s productivity and facilitate their work and studies! My work in developing Habit Cash is supported by Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub and the Apple Developer Program, and I also found a welcoming community of high school software developers, and we would get together and work on our own softwares / projects. Having a supportive community behind me inspired me to keep going and make my dream come true. Another part of Habit Cash that excites me is writing the Whitepaper for Habitcoins. Prior to Habit Cash, I had completed two cryptography research projects with professors from Stanford University and Kenyon College. I became fascinated with cryptography and blockchain technology, and thus I wanted to formulate my own digital currency. Using my cryptography and mathematical knowledge, I created a decentralized and secure system for Habitcoins so that users of Habit Cash can make Habitcoins from studying and trade it for real money, and every transaction of Habitcoins is on a blockchain. I researched other blockchain platforms and the Whitepapers of digital currencies to write my own rules for Habitcoins. It was so rewarding seeing how Habitcoin run efficiently with my paper, and I loved the process of coming up with this idea and seeing it take shape with time and effort.”
   Platformerz:When asked what inspired the creation of Platformerz, the students said, ”The thing that inspired us to create this app is curiosity. We wanted to learn more about coding and create a project that was entertaining. This is our first complex game that we were motivated to work on for an extended amount of time. ”
   WeatherStart:When asked what inspired the creation of WeatherStart, the student said, ”My dad has a bunch of weather apps, but all of them either didn’t have precise enough data or had ads, so I wanted to develop an app that provided precise data and without ads.”
   Recycle Master:When asked what inspired the creation of Recycle Master, the student said, ”I wanted to teach people, especially young people, what is and isn’t recyclable or compostable so they can develop good habits and make more informed purchase choices, as well as to help protect the environment.”
   Secure Comm:When asked what inspired the creation of Secure Comm, the students said, ”The lack of private communication in schools between students and teachers in case of an incident.”
   Math Tree:When asked what inspired the creation of Math Tree, the students said, ” After the recent events of covid, learning loss has become a drastic problem. The world needs an online educational tool to keep kids safe, but keep them learning. Our app is a perfect solution to this problem because, while it includes difficult math problems, it is not a boring old study application! Kids, especially after the covid disaster, need a way to learn that isn’t going to stress them out. We created our app to help kids struggling from covid learning loss or that just need a way to learn that really brings the fun. We also added environmental learning benefits in our game to help kids realize how important the environment is to their future just like math is important for their future.”
   Emblitz:When asked what inspired the creation of Emblitz, the students said, ”After spending an afternoon playing strategy-based board games, we came to enjoy the strategic and collaborative nature of it. Playing board games gives players the chance to connect with others, work together, and accomplish shared goals. We wanted to introduce these aspects to a virtual game that can be taken anywhere one might go. As a result, we sought to design a thought-provoking, multiplayer strategy game that can be enjoyed with both friends and with people around the world. Our goal was to create a strategy game that can be easily played and shared with people around you, regardless of what you’re doing. The fast-paced, multiplayer matches help achieve this by encouraging quick gameplay driven by teamwork and coordination. We also wanted to include competitive and additional reward elements to incentivize players to compete against each other and remain active and engaged users. Furthermore, we wanted the game to be as accessible as possible, so we decided to create a web-based game that can be run on any device. This is why we created Emblitz, and we hope that the nature of the game will encourage people to form new connections with those around them as they compete in a casual, friendly environment in a board-game-inspired strategy game.”
   BetterSelf:When asked what inspired the creation of BetterSelf, the student said, ”Over the pandemic I became interested in learning about various philosophies. However, when I tried reading some of the texts I found them to be hard to comprehend and lengthy. This creates a barrier for people interested in bettering themselves through philosophy, which I feel should be accessible to those with limited time. I’ve always wanted to read nonfiction books, but rarely had the time to do so. This led to me consuming lots of summaries, in video and text form. I combined this summarization idea with bite-sized daily lessons to make BetterSelf an accessible and habit-forming way to learn philosophy.”
   Earthly:When asked what inspired the creation of Earthly, the student said, ”Earthly was a project founded with the mission to spread climate education across the world. “Rising temperatures are fueling environmental degradation, natural disasters, weather extremes, food and water insecurity, economic disruption, conflict, and terrorism. Sea levels are rising, the Arctic is melting, coral reefs are dying, oceans are acidifying, and forests are burning.(United Nations)” These are only just a few of the surplus of negative consequences of climate change. These consequences most likely occur, because of the lack of awareness in our communities, which led to widespread illiteracy in climate education. Thus, this app wants to get create a more literate population in terms of climate education, so climate change is not just taken lightly. By using the power of education, we have a chance at reducing the effects of climate change, hence it is crucial people take part in educating other people. However, with the wrong information, the situation will worsen. Therefore it is important to inform our audience with reliable information and important content, as we want to stop the spread of misinformation. Misinformation and a lack of awareness is the leading cause of the ongoing climate crisis. Valuable education is a vital step to slowing down climate change. Also motivating our audience to act in their community fosters motivation and support for our local and national organizations, that fight endlessly for change in our community. Creating a stronger community bond was crucial in this app, as the more people work together the more work our world can get done. Furthermore, we want our Journal and Gallery features to allow our users to have a personalized and valuable experience. Our gallery and journal feature inspires our users to think about certain ideas and inspire change, as they grow to see the beauty of the earth. These features were in our vision to create a more interactive user experience because just by consuming information a user might now learn as much as if they were to synthesize the information and apply it to real situations. We want the diverse features in our app to tie into a passion in the citizens of the world lastly, we hope that our app can serve as a stepping stone to help fight the climate crisis.”
   BoxSouls:When asked what inspired the creation of BoxSouls, the student said, ”I’ve always really loved the rougelike genre of games and their challenging gameplay that keeps you invested while also allowing an easy way to just pick up and play the game, which is what I wanted to accomplish.”
   Tell Their Stories:When asked what inspired the creation of Tell Their Stories, the student said, ”I had two primary inspirations for creating this app. First, I am very passionate about the issue of period poverty. Here in the United States, we are lucky that the majority of women can afford period products (but there are still many who cannot). However, in developing countries, the percentages of women who cannot afford these supplies are much higher. I created this platform to not only increase awareness of the issue of period poverty as a whole, but also to help users understand what women in other countries are experiencing. Secondly, I wanted to provide users with ways that they can take action on this issue in their own communities. I have found that many people my age, such as high school students, are very passionate about social issues like period poverty, but they are unsure of what they can do to help. I wanted to provide ideas specifically targeted to this demographic, such as projects that students can conduct in a school setting.”
   DoorHinge Parkour:When asked what inspired the creation of DoorHinge Parkour, the student said, ”My two main passions are coding and parkour, and I was thinking if there was a way to combine them. My answer came in the form of DoorHinge Parkour several months later. I enjoy doing parkour, but I also like to teach and help other people, so that was part of my inspiration. There aren’t a lot of apps to teach parkour yet, so DoorHinge Parkour is one of the first out there for people to use.”
   Smart Carpool:When asked what inspired the creation of Smart Carpool, the students said, ”We were inspired to create this app after witnessing the struggles faced by teachers at our school to efficiently dispatch students to their parent’s cars. It was woefully inefficient and unreliable. The walkie-talkie system made it difficult to communicate and was prone to human error. This caused congestion outside of the school and blocked traffic, which had serious negative effects. We faced this issue ourselves, as the blocked traffic made it difficult for us to leave school without sacrificing a good amount of time. The car queue usually extended to the main road, which could create serious consequences. As such, we decided to create an app to improve overall efficiency that could be operated using a phone. We wanted to speed up the process of sending students out when parents walk up to the school to pick their child up. Thus, we built a QR code system to allow the teachers to scan the code and send the correct students out. We also wanted to remove the walkie-talkie system, so we built a database system which would allow changes to be seen instantaneously across all the devices of a particular school. However, this still left the system prone to errors, as the teachers had to ask the parents who they were picking up. In response, we built a license plate scanner which automatically notified teachers which students are ready to be picked up without interacting with parents. The license plates are all encoded using a SHA-256 algorithm to protect the parents’ information.”
   BikeBetter:
   Math Class:When asked what inspired the creation of Math Class, the student said, ”The idea came to me in class when my teacher told the class to work on math facts. I thought about how fun it would be to code a game that focused on math facts.”
   Leap Toward Safety:When asked what inspired the creation of Leap Toward Safety, the student said, ”The Cascadia Subduction zone is a fault line that stretches all the way from Northern Vancouver to California. While learning about earthquakes and noticing that there will be a big one coming in Oregon, California and Washington within the next 30 years, we began to get involved with advocating for natural disaster preparedness. After more research and having interviews with elementary school students, we observed that there was a recurring pattern in their insufficiency of knowledge of their working understanding in the field of natural disaster and earthquake preparedness. From this observation, we anticipate that unforeseen earthquakes will be detrimental to their future survival. While conducting the many interviews with our esteemed colleagues, the largest percentage of students dolefully answered that they “know nothing about natural disasters” and they “want[ed] to learn more about it”. From our personal experience, one of the most efficient and fun ways to learn about a boring but life-saving subject is through boisterous interactive activities with instant gratification. Thus, we created one of the most well-known games, Mario, from our childhood but with a unique twist to help students understand the facts behind natural disasters. We feel that the schools are focusing on more standard teaching such as math, English, and history rather than preparedness studies. While the Cascadia earthquake is much overdue and looms forebodingly in the foggy future, the students today do not have a sufficient understanding and they are the ones that will be most impacted by this disastrous event. As said by John F. Kennedy, “Children are the world’s most valuable resource and its best hope for the future”. Hence, with this inspirational and reinvigorating problem, we got inspired to build an app for the lives of future generations, but also in the hope to help the world through this difficult time.”
   Save Your Heart:When asked what inspired the creation of Save Your Heart, the student said, ”The name of this app is “Save Your Heart” . I made it for my mom because she was recently diagnosed with high blood pressure. I was sad when her mother, whom I thought would be with me in good health, was diagnosed with this disease, so I wanted to be more helpful to her health. For health, she had to measure blood pressure every morning and evening and write down the measured blood pressure on a piece of paper and take it to the hospital but sometimes she forget to record it and lost her blood pressure record list. So she can’t submit it to her doctor . Therefore, I thought that it would be good to have a blood pressure recorder in the cell phone that my mother carries every day, and if I make it, I think that it can be more beneficial to her health without forgetting to measure her blood pressure or losing the paper. I have heard that there are many people with high blood pressure all over the world. It would be great if it could be of some help to someone suffering from high blood pressure like my mother.”
   Task Manager:When asked what inspired the creation of Task Manager, the students said, ”We noticed a lot of people have had trouble managing their time properly and keeping track of what to do in school. We created this app so any students looking to be a little more organized could get a clear picture of what they need to do and when they need to do it by.”
   PlanScape:When asked what inspired the creation of PlanScape, the student said, ”Resilience is a very important skill in life. When faced with obstacles, it is crucial that we are able to bounce back and persevere onward. I love not only playing games, but also creating games. While games are most commonly used simply as an entertainment format for fun, they also have a great potential to teach. I wanted to create a game that is not only a whole lot of fun to play, but also one that teaches an important lesson at the same time. One frequent problem that I see with games that aim to teach some content is there is an obvious divide that forms between the information and the gameplay itself. With PlanScape, I tried to learn from other educational games and find their flaws in order to allow myself to create a gameplay experience that not only taught an important life skill but also delivered the player a great experience.”
   Party Games:When asked what inspired the creation of Party Games, the student said, ”The time was slowly ticking away, and I had at least checked my phone screen twice to see when I could get out of that get together. It was with a group of friends, but not a lot was happening. One of my friends started searching up “Most Likely To…” questions on his phone. If you aren’t familiar with the game, it is a list of prompts that you and your group then decide who is most fitted for that action (i.e. Most likely to..run for president). He played this game by scrolling through Google images with prompts on them, then later doing this same process but with Never Have I Ever. This sparked the idea of there being an app with every party game, in one spot. Then, not only could you avoid using google images questions, but it is also a one-stop shop, having every party game you would ever want to play.”
   iHearU:When asked what inspired the creation of iHearU, the students said, ”We were inspired to create our app after doing some research on current issues. When looking for topics to address, we came across some alarming figures. According to a CAP analysis conducted from 2009-2018, on a daily basis, there are approximately 1100 threats of gun violence, 210 gun-related injuries, and 103 deaths due to guns during violent crimes.  And the current situation is worsening, as is evidenced by the constant barrage of gory images on news stations. Upon hearing these statistics and learning about the instances of gun violence (such as school shootings), we began to wonder “What if this happened to us or someone we know?” So, we started to think about what we could do. We talked to our school teachers about this and our Computer Science teacher was fascinated by our curiosity. He worked with us and told us to make an app and try to invoke change in our community. Though motivated by the sentiment, we were flabbergasted. We had little experience in app development, unaware of what asynchronous programming or app activities were when our computer science teacher was talking about the basics of apps. But after some consideration, we decided to follow through on our teacher’s recommendation, excited by the prospects of learning such an advanced topic. And though we started with block code, we learned a lot through our struggles and are prepared to improve this app with more advanced programming, like Java. The only question now was what should our app do? After days of deliberation, we decided to focus more on how we could keep the user safe than actually prevent the crime. As a result, we made an app that could help protect us in a dangerous situation. Using our app, iHearU, many perpetrators could be caught, many injuries could be less severe, and many deaths could be prevented.”
   RecycleBot: Machine Learning Based Automated Waste detection and Classification:When asked what inspired the creation of RecycleBot: Machine Learning Based Automated Waste detection and Classification, the student said, ”Recycling is an important mechanism to improve the sustainability of our ecosystem and despite increased awareness, only 13% of the trash is currently recycled on the global level. Besides preventing the pollution, recycling helps in conserving natural resources, save energy, and preserve the balance in the environment leading to greener planet, for example, it takes 95% less energy to recycle aluminum than it does to make it from raw materials. As a leader, Sweden only puts 1% of its waste in the landfill and recycles rest into reuse and generating energy. Rest of the world is lagging and everyday millions of recyclable items are thrown in the trash because of lack of clarity if they are recyclable or not. If something is recyclable, that material can be reused instead of going in the trash, resulting in smaller landfills. The challenge is not new, however I got excited about the idea of using emerging technologies to improve the recycle fraction of the trash. I developed this web application to guide the user if a specific item should be thrown in the recycle bin instead of putting in the trash.”
   PA Cares:
   Secure Cam:When asked what inspired the creation of Secure Cam, the student said, ”I was very disappointed that, as far as I knew, there was not any free app to monitor and receive alert notifications from web cameras set up on a laptop or PC, so created this app.”
   Epic Golf:When asked what inspired the creation of Epic Golf, the students said, ”We like golf and it is fun.”
   STOCyberReady:When asked what inspired the creation of STOCyberReady, the students said, ”Covid brought me (and my friends) boredom, isolation and somewhat misguided curiosity. We decided we’d change our birth years to gain access to the hallowed digital wonderland called Instagram. For weeks, we furtively marveled at glamorous insta-lives. How could we make more people like our posts? Over time, we realized that there was a whole behind-the-scenes crew. They were pulling our strings by timing our dopamine releases. These companies spent big money to learn about us – privacy is a hot commodity and someone could use this to manipulate us like lifeless widgets. This was easy to dismiss until one of our classmates wandered into a dark digital hole, became progressively disconnected until one day, he committed suicide. While we will never know exactly what led him there, we learn and protect our information against misuse. And this realization guided us to the work at SafeTeensOnline, to share what we’d learned, to invite discussion on these important topics, improve our collective awareness, and build a digitally safe future for us.  In 2020, FBI noted that eight children per day face online exploitation. Within the US, DQ Institute confirmed that ~12M children are exposed to cyber risks, ~9M are affected by cyberbullying, and 6M experienced cyber threats in the US only.  Within our own island (Puerto Rico), during March 2020, the number of referrals we got from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children increased 48 percent. In response, U.S. Immigration & Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) Child Exploitation Investigative Unit educates children and teens on the dangers of cyberbullying and sexual predators and offers them tips on how they can stay safe online.  We are now aware that while the digital world opens up opportunities (and continued online school during Covid), it also opens the door to numerous risks. We want youth in the world to thrive online, safely – physically, emotionally, financially and digitally safely in Puerto Rico, the US and for the world. We built our predictive model and app to make cyber safety awareness accessible to our peers. As they learn about the impact of their digital choices on their cyber risk and get educated on cyber safety, we hope they make better choices to reduce their risk. Over time, as they continue along their learning journeys, they may consider careers in cybersecurity accessible. ”
   Color Deception:When asked what inspired the creation of Color Deception, the student said, ”I was obsessed with the ‘Click the Color, not the Word’ game when I was younger. I later learned that the game is based on the Stroop effect, which is the delayed reaction when the color of the word does not match the name of the word. This really interested me so when I was brought the opportunity, I built the app.”
   Auction & Forum Exchange:When asked what inspired the creation of Auction & Forum Exchange, the student said, ”I have always wanted to use my knowledge in web programming to be able to construct an application that can be used by a large user base, which is both interactive and practical. Also, dealing with money on the website through a mock platform for auctioning was a great way for me to further test my skills and learn more about how to construct a database, incorporate asynchronous Javascript, and use python in Django. for routing in combination with Python for views and actions.”
   GoFigure:When asked what inspired the creation of GoFigure, the students said, ”Our old math teacher quit, and so a different math teacher had to quickly fill in his place. However, he didn’t have any access to IB math questions, and didn’t have much experience with the curriculum. Naturally, he was overwhelmed and didn’t really know how to teach the class. Of course, the whole situation wasn’t fair for the teacher, but there wasn’t really an alternative since there’s a nationwide teacher shortage. It also wasn’t fair for the students, who needed to learn the content so that they could pass their exam. So, he asked us to make practice math questions since we were part of the Math Team and already knew the class content well.  We soon learned that making questions was super time consuming. It would take hours just to make a 30 question problem set, and we had other work to do for school as well. However, while making the questions, we started figuring out some tricks– instead of using trial and error to see what numbers and equations made neat, fun, questions, we started using patterns and logic we could apply to make good questions on the first try. That led to the idea: if we could apply logic to make good questions, then a computer could do it as well! That would save us a lot of time, make it easier for the teacher to make questions quickly, and even let students make their own questions to practice on their own! Most importantly, it would be a resource that would be beneficial to years of students after us, and any future teacher would be less likely to be overwhelmed. The goal of the app was to be a sustainable practice resource– one that would last and something that we and others after us could build on for years to come. We are really passionate about education– something that’s important to so many individuals, but also to the country as a whole. After all, as Nelson Mandela said, ‘The youth of today are the leaders of tomorrow.’”
   Lighthouse: A Literary Guide:When asked what inspired the creation of Lighthouse: A Literary Guide, the students said, ”People’s brains are amazing things. Made up of billions of Neurons, constantly firing and sending messages to other parts of the brain. When we are born, we have almost all the neurons you will ever have. And as your brain continues to change and grow the connections and pathways between your neurons change as well. As you grow up, what you experience, and your environment helps your brain decide what connections are important and useful. Meaning that as you go throughout life, your brain can add new connections or subtract unused ones. Like calling to mind the names of people we run into, how to get to the coffee shop, and the funny joke you read in the magazine at the doctor’s. But while our brains are so amazing, they need to be protected. We are surrounded by all different kinds of media that, if we’re not careful, can poorly program our brains especially those of young people and children in ways that we don’t even notice or understand. By reading certain material we might change who we are or who we will be in the future. That is why we created Lighthouse.”
   College Admissions Calculator:When asked what inspired the creation of College Admissions Calculator, the student said, ”I recently started looking at different colleges myself and realized how difficult it was to find good college admissions calculators that didn’t require signing up or paying. It inspired me to make my own college admissions calculator since I struggled so much with finding one.”
   ORHS Scheduling:When asked what inspired the creation of ORHS Scheduling, the student said, ”When I was a rising freshman at Oak Ridge High School, I had trouble finding class information and planning out my schedule such that not only would I be taking classes of my interest, but also meeting graduation requirements. In addition, when I discussed this problem with my friends including juniors, I discovered that they had similar problems. Even though school websites such as Skyward and Naviance had the necessary information, they were hard to navigate, weren’t compiled into one place, and did not have the option to plan for the future.”
   Nashville Newbie:When asked what inspired the creation of Nashville Newbie, the student said, ”The population of Nashville is just over 700,000 and is expanding at 110 people per day. When moving to a new location it can be difficult to adjust, so this app is meant to resolve this problem. My brother has just recently changed states for college, so I was able to hear firsthand about the different challenges that people face.”
   Pathway:When asked what inspired the creation of Pathway, the students said, ”In 2018, around 39% of the population stated that they didn’t seek mental health because it was too costly. People are unable to find proper therapy because of lack of proper information and oftentimes simple notifications can provide the motivation for someone who is down. Cost acts as a barrier between those that can obtain medical assistance and those that can’t. We realized all of this when many people at and outside of our schools sought therapy for many different reasons, but they had regrets and hesitance while doing so because of the cost. Especially in the midst of a pandemic, the financial conditions of many families became fragile. We wanted to make it a leveled field for everyone because the right to life should not be decided by wealth. People have also lost time and money by trying to solve their needs through therapy. That’s why we created an app that will provide a pathway for many people to gain free advice/recommendations and resources for their therapeutic needs by congregating different therapeutics and advice in one, simple-to-use mobile app. ”
   DeskHealth:When asked what inspired the creation of DeskHealth, the student said, ”I have made multiple basic chrome extensions in the past. RabbitHole Detector was made during a 48 hour hackathon which trakced which pages you spent the most time on. I wanted to something with productivity, and I see chrome extensions as the most effective platform to use. They also updated their platform recently, and so I wanted to refresh my knowledge and become more familiar with the function available to me.”
   HairWise:When asked what inspired the creation of HairWise, the students said, ”In our state alone, thousands of children are in foster care, and about a third are African-American. However, most foster parents are non-Hispanic white adults. For many children of color, hair is a part of their identity. Unfortunately, many children in the foster care system are placed with families who do not know how to deal with their natural hair. As a result, their hair is not taken care of properly, adding more shame and embarrassment to the child. We understand that having a foster child with a different hair type can be daunting for parents. Our hope is that the HairWise App will help families with the hair of their foster child and act as a hair guide for parents in their foster care journey.”
   Asthma Manager:When asked what inspired the creation of Asthma Manager, the student said, ”There are more than 3 million US asthma cases per year. It is a lifelong disease and you are unable to be cured. But the good news is that you can keep it under control. Inspired by my cousin with asthma, I created this app, Asthma Manager. My app’s purpose is to help people with asthma to keep their asthma under control.”
   Freebie:When asked what inspired the creation of Freebie, the student said, ”2.12 billion tons of trash are thrown away each year, and a good portion of that can be reused by someone else. I wanted to find a way to directly impact those in need, and hopefully users will create a feedback loop of donating which would help prevent waste over time.”
   ZoomRead:When asked what inspired the creation of ZoomRead, the student said, ”After my first year of high school, I was shocked by how much more reading I had to do compared to middle school. I knew that if I wanted to survive my sophomore year, I would need to become a much faster reader and develop my reading comprehension skills. That’s when I decided to create ZoomRead for students and reading enthusiasts to become better readers.”
   Recog Classroom Attendance:When asked what inspired the creation of Recog Classroom Attendance, the student said, ”At the beginning of the school year, I saw how much time my teachers were spending on classroom attendance. At the time, I had figured that it was a trivial enough difference, but with some calculation, I realized that teachers wasted up to 18 hours per year on this menial task, which is undeniably significant. With this in mind, I started to design a solution to this problem.”
   iCog:When asked what inspired the creation of iCog, the student said, ”According to the World Health Organization, there are around 55 million people who have a dementia related illness. This number is only rising and is estimated to reach 78 million by 2030 and 139 million by 2050. I was motivated to create this app after witnessing my grandfather’s struggles with dementia, particularly in receiving an accurate diagnosis. Just like my grandfather, a majority of people struggling with dementia live in developing countries with low income and a lack of access to proper medical facilities. Even worse, there are an estimated 41 million cases of dementia around the world that are undiagnosed, with over 90% of projected dementia cases undiagnosed in low-middle income countries. The lack of a proper diagnoses can be attributed to three main factors. First is a lack of access to medical facilities due to their prohibitive cost and limited access, especially in developing areasSecond is the medical facilities that are available are overwhelmed and experience lots of delays, leading many to give up before they receive the medical help they need. Third is the main culprit – the stigma associated with visiting a doctor due to a lack of understanding and public awareness of  the disease. Around 1 in 3 people believe that nothing can be done about dementia. Many are unwilling to acknowledge that they have a problem. They refuse to seek help. This is a major problem as a diagnosis especially an early one, is key to taking action, in the right step, before it is too late.”
   College Calculator:When asked what inspired the creation of College Calculator, the student said, ”During my junior year, my school’s college advisor joked around with me during my computer science class. He said that I should create a program to do his job for him. At the time, I did not think anything of it. Later on, while I started my journey of choosing which colleges to apply to, I realized that this was not an easy process. I am lucky to be in a really small school with a great college advisor, but I know that when college advisors have to talk with hundreds if not thousands of kids, they may struggle. These two reasons are why I created this app. I wanted to help those who were struggling just like I once was.”
   Pet Services:When asked what inspired the creation of Pet Services, the student said, ”A team member was the owner of a guinea pig. His pet got sick and his family did not find information about pet clinics available to provide emergency services for his pet. To help people facing a similar situation, the team created the app to contribute to our Galveston-League City community with an app that organizes all the contact information related to locations providing pet services.”
   Superscript+:When asked what inspired the creation of Superscript+, the student said, ”I have always disliked block coding. Most concepts learned through block coding is hard to apply to text-based coding. Realizing these struggles, I decided to create an app that teaches an easier, high-level programming language. Our world is becoming more and more technological, and I believe that it is crucial that the next generation of coders have an easier, more efficient, and accessible way to learn code.”
   DO-NATION:When asked what inspired the creation of DO-NATION, the student said, ”The people with very little to eat and no shelter to live in. Along with that, the price inflation contributed to the making of my app.”
   Sand Sieve:When asked what inspired the creation of Sand Sieve, the student said, ”When I went to the beach, I noticed how much trash was all over the sand and in the water. I have seen the video of a straw being in a turtle’s nose a couple of years ago and it made me think about how I have never seen an app or game about cleaning beaches.”
   Ivy Plant Identifier:
   OurMind:When asked what inspired the creation of OurMind, the student said, ”Individuals do not know much about the brain unless one is interested in the medical field and specialize in the brain. There are so many things individuals don’t know that occurs within our brains and we keep discovering new things about it every single day which I find fascinating. Mental health is also something very important to me, so within this app, I also included articles that I believe makes one more informed about mental illness, its causes, and what we can actively do in order to be become better every single day. I also tried to apply animations in order to entertain the user. I also made more research about human behavior because I naturally find it interesting, it is organic to be curious about beaviors, so I also added articles in order to inform others!”
   Disabled Health:When asked what inspired the creation of Disabled Health, the student said, ”The prevalence of injury amongst disabled children is over four times as likely as that of a child without disabilities. Over half of the injuries dealt to disabled children occur at home, and around half of those injuries are caused by falling. These alarming statistics inspired me to create this app. AI technologies such as Siri don’t have readily available medical information; thus, it becomes incredibly hard to treat damages done at home, especially when the injury happens unexpectedly. 62% of adults with disabilities say that they own a computer, while 81% of adults without disabilities say that they own a computer. This gap comes from the fact that it is incredibly hard to use computers if you are disabled, even with the new technology to help aid this problem. I wanted to create this app so that disabled people can help treat their injuries faster and have an easier time navigating technology.”
   Paddle:When asked what inspired the creation of Paddle, the student said, ”I wanted something fun to do on my computer that wasn’t going to suck me into spending hours on youtube watching short videos that decreased my attention span and didn’t come with the dangers that all social media platforms have.”
   TrailUS:When asked what inspired the creation of TrailUS, the student said, ”Last year, in 8th grade, I ran 1 mile in 11 minutes. After practicing, I brought my mile time all the way down to 6:11. While running outside my neighborhood for practice, I realized just how many beautiful trails there were in my close vicinity. My app was made with the goal of encouraging healthier lifestyles for our community, and to make it easy for people to enjoy our local trails.”
   Mental Health App:When asked what inspired the creation of Mental Health App, the student said, ”I was inspired to write this graph by the state of many students around my school. I know many of my friends struggle mentally, whether it is with big or small issues, they feel stressed and anxious about life, and I would like to provide them with a way to reduce those negative feelings. I have also found that the things I implemented in the app have helped me improve my mood when I am struggling. However, this app would not only be geared toward children, as many adults struggle mentally as well. ”
   Right Exercise:When asked what inspired the creation of Right Exercise, the student said, ”First, I’ll provide a bit of context. My mom found this newfound motivation over the COVID-19 lockdown to finally start exercising. However, gyms were closed and she did not have any professional guidance, so she resorted to YouTube. YouTube is great at telling people what to do, but terrible at providing feedback on whether they are even doing it correctly. Oftentimes, I would notice my mom doing something totally different than what the YouTube trainer was doing. She claimed she was following the video exactly, but the reality was in fact very different. If she kept doing things the wrong way, 1) she would probably see little to no difference from her workouts, or 2) she could develop adverse problems because of not following form. This motivated me to find a way to teach people how to “Exercise the Right Way” (hence the name haha). Developing a web-based app that’s available on Android, iOS, and the web allowed me to reach the greatest audiences by creating an at-home personal trainer that’s always ready to go! With this, I hope to inspire millions of others to benefit and start using Right Exercise and begin Exercising the Right Way!”
   ShareME:When asked what inspired the creation of ShareME, the students said, ”Since we are all high school students who live in a pre-collegiate boarding school, it is often hard to adjust to the independence of being away from home. Oftentimes, whenever we are in need of necessities such as batteries, electronic cords, or even toiletries, we don’t have the transportation to get these items. Instead, we turn to a large group chat with all the students in the dorm. Though this chat facilitates a community of sorts, it falls short of providing for each individual. Texts are ineffective, left unanswered, and overshadowed by other messages. This results in students buying a surplus of items, which often contributes to unnecessary waste. To solve this widespread issue, we built ShareME, a mobile application that enables students at dorms to reduce waste by creating posts requesting to either borrow or lend items.”
   EcoScout:When asked what inspired the creation of EcoScout, the student said, ”I saw that many people are willing to help the Earth, but they don’t do it because it can be inconvenient and time-consuming. That’s why I made EcoScout, to provide short and fun ways to help the environment without the extra steps.”
   Rise & Shine:When asked what inspired the creation of Rise & Shine, the student said, ”As a sophomore in high school, I have helped my younger sibling with many academic concepts and school projects that he always reaches out to me for. However, it was not only him. After his friends realized that my brother was receiving help from me, they also started to come to me for projects, exhibitions, and subject help. I realized that many of these kids do not have adult mentors to guide them in different STEM areas, and this was the main reason I decided to create Rise & Shine.   Additionally, I recognized the change in curriculum and teaching methods when compared to the traditional ways of teaching. As a result, younger students struggle with important critical thinking, problem solving and parents usually cannot help because they are unfamiliar with the new methods of finding solutions. In other words, when a primary student struggles with the concepts taught in class, or coming up with ideas for their projects and the gap in teaching methods, they seek some guidance with someone who knows and understands new teaching ways and reasoning. There are many tutors available; however, they are very expensive, and practically not affordable. Creating a free knowledge sharing platform that will allow primary or early middle school kids to partner with High school students who can help them navigate STEM.   My heart breaks when I think about the kids who lost a parent, guardian and grandparent due to the pandemic. Some left with single parents working all day to make ends meet may not have time to help students everyday with academic coursework. I want to support them by creating resources that allow every primary-middle school student to excel in school.    Another factor that led to me creating this app was that whenever a high-school student volunteers somewhere, most of the time, they are not allowed to choose their work timings. This makes it increasingly difficult for students to live a balanced lifestyle, especially during the school year. When students get involved, they develop leadership skills, collaboration skills, and overall, they become better problem solvers. Also, many high schoolers with medical injuries cannot perform most of the volunteer activities since these require constant movement. The best part of this app is that this can all be done online! Students do not have to go anywhere to receive homework help, and parents do not have to constantly drive their children to various locations.”
   Next Step:When asked what inspired the creation of Next Step, the students said, ”We’ve faced the rigorous education system for the majority of our life, as have millions of other students. We’ve seen countless cases of students who are burnt out, anxious, and extremely worried about their future. We want to combat this issue, by supplying students with a resource they can use to easily plan their next step and their mental well-being.”
   Parker's TrigStar Practice:When asked what inspired the creation of Parker’s TrigStar Practice, the student said, ”In 2022 I won my school’s and state TrigStar competitions, but was unable to complete the final problem of the national level test. This motivated me to study harder for the 2023 competition. I also want to help future competitors improve their trigonometric knowledge so they can go on to win. Winning at the state level rewards their teacher with money so I also want to help Syracuse High School math teachers.”
   Velox:When asked what inspired the creation of Velox, the students said, ”We both had learned a lot of coding through online tutorials, and self-pursued projects outside of school. From our experience, we found great beginner tutorials online, but as we became more proficient at coding, we found these types of tutorials could be redundant when just wanting to learn a new language’s syntax, thus resorting to frequent, ad-hoc Google searches.  Learning a new programming language from the basics is like learning a new concept in mathematics – if you must start with basic arithmetic each time, you end up wasting a lot of time re-learning concepts you already know. This can be discouraging to new coders – of which the industry needs – who want to jump from language to language, and are instead forced to focus on one. While there are benefits to language specialization, the ability to jump from language to language is essential in modern industry, as many coding projects require more than one coding language. In fact, the University of the People, a tuition-free academic program, advises learning at least one new programming language a year. Thus, we aimed to create a clean, straightforward tutorial application that could teach users syntax quickly, hence the name “Velox” – Latin for “quick.” Velox was designed specifically with extensibility in mind: as we learn more languages, we can add to the app’s curriculum database, making more languages accessible to a broader audience.”
   IntellectX:When asked what inspired the creation of IntellectX, the student said, ”During a recent trip to Mongolia and as a student with a passion in assisting my community, I volunteered at a local English academy dedicated to educating nomadic high school students about educational opportunities in the United States and English proficiency. Here, I taught scholars anywhere from elementary to college level students in English. Many of the graduating senior students came to me for advice and additional information about potential available majors, summer programs, and top universities they could enroll in. Without answers, I researched for each individual and discovered the overwhelming statistics showing the reality of choosing a major. 64% of college students are not confident in their career path when they enroll in college, and one in three students feel overwhelmed by the process of selecting a major. For most, what starts as a simple google search always ends in a rabbit-hole looking for application deadlines, program benefits, the timeline, etc. This comes to the demise of students who enter college who are at a loss of what to do in these situations. By the end of the day, students waste too many minutes looking for a single piece of information. To assist and in providing an opportunity for these students, I created IntellectX as a way for students to quickly research and organize their tasks through a time-efficient, easy-to-use, all-in-one platform for students.”
   Hollow Valley:When asked what inspired the creation of Hollow Valley, the student said, ”I was introduced to HTML files and canvases during a computer programming class I took during the spring of 2022. For my final project I chose to create a simple game. The game I submitted for that class was used as a building off point for the app that I am submitting here.”
   Milestone:When asked what inspired the creation of Milestone, the student said, ”After I had earned my learners permit to start driving, I learned that I needed to track my driving hours in order to get my driver’s license. Tracking hours on paper is inconvenient so I wanted to make an easy to use app that could do it for me.”
   Learn2Code:When asked what inspired the creation of Learn2Code, the student said, ”I first learned to program in my 7th grade keyboarding through a Microsoft website called TouchDevelop. It provided step by step guides to programming games, in a language very similar to JavaScript if I remember correctly. Because I was told exactly what to do, I was able to create games easily while understanding how they worked, and that inspired me to start writing my own programs in their editor. Unfortunately, Microsoft replaced this website with a block programming website, and block coding, although useful for learning how basic programming logic works, is not effective at teaching real world languages in my opinion. The main problem is the fact that learners have no reason to switch to other languages after learning to block code. This was a problem with TouchDevelop as well, because they provided many libraries and shortcuts that would not be found in real code. The long term benefits of learning an actual language are traded for the short term benefits of simplicity. Learn2Code attempts to solve this problem by starting the user with real world HTML, JavaScript and CSS and telling them exactly what to write, in order to keep things simple. Gradually, they will begin to understand what they are writing and become inspired to write code themselves, or that is the intention at least.”
   Skin in the Game:When asked what inspired the creation of Skin in the Game, the student said, ”Anytime I had a skin rash or bug bite, my aunt would claim that it was ringworm, regardless of if it actually was ringworm.  This was annoying, and it gave me the idea for the app. I wanted to play with machine learning and make an app for my phone. I’m also applying for a Space Camp scholarship and needed to do a science experiment or engineering project. This app is my project.”
   Tiresias:When asked what inspired the creation of Tiresias, the students said, ”We realized that many of our family members struggled with vision loss as they grew older. This led to numerous issues in our lives that disrupted us in some unique way. We decided that we wanted to create something that could help navigate and identify objects that blind or vision-impaired people face daily. We want to help our friends and family who struggle/will struggle with vision impairment or possibly blindness to feel safe if the issue arises. We decided to take our passion for Computer Science and used Artificial Intelligence as a gateway to support our app’s overall structure by using all our unique skill sets.”
   Turbulent:When asked what inspired the creation of Turbulent, the student said, ”On average, nearly 20 people are physically abused by a partner every minute, adding up to over 10 million people physically abused in a relationship every year. Domestic violence and abuse is an extremely pressing issues. Turbulent was inspired by my participation in a program run by the Shelter for Help in Emergency, Wintersongs. This event promoted awareness of domestic abuse and inspired me to explore and research how I could make a positive impact on this societal problem. I learned that virtually all apps that currently exist for victims of domestic violence charge their users a subscription fee for their services, and I wanted to make an app that could have everything in one place, for free.”
   Scholance:When asked what inspired the creation of Scholance, the students said, ”We were influenced to create Scholance for two reasons. One, students in our area typically have difficulty finding community service opportunities. And two, we believe students should have easy access to freelancing opportunities which allows them to gain knowledge in their field while helping the community. ”
   HeartHealth:When asked what inspired the creation of HeartHealth, the student said, ”Gwyneth Griffin was our neighbor who tragically passed away from an anoxic brain injury caused by a delay in emergency response after she had a cardiac arrest. Her death was preventable with proper CPR/AED administration, so we wanted to take action toward a world where no one had to lose their friend to a preventable death. We have been organizing CPR/AED training in middle schools across the county, but we wanted to create this app to make cardiac arrest response training even more accessible to all members of our community and beyond.”
   Launch Log:When asked what inspired the creation of Launch Log, the student said, ”The field of STEM is my passion, and I love to work on personal projects in every branch of STEM. Over this summer, I wanted to start a project that was bigger than my projects before. I wanted to start something in which I had to learn something completely new, as well as combine my knowledge of many different fields into one grand product. Thus, when I heard of the Congressional App Challenge from my mentors at CGI, it seemed like the perfect front for my STEM project. Because the challenge was centered around apps that would help the government, I naturally began to think of NASA and how it studies the atmosphere using projectiles such as rockets. I could build a rocket that used an Arduino sensor to measure atmospheric data just like NASA, and my app could be a way of viewing this sensor data to visualize the flight. In this way, I could learn about a completely new field of STEM, model rocketry, as well as apply my skills in Arduino circuitry and Python programming to make the ultimate STEM project that I had wanted.”
   RoutineRemind:When asked what inspired the creation of RoutineRemind, the students said, ”The primary idea for this app came from one of our team members, whose younger brother is on the autism spectrum. His brother has frequent tantrums, anxiety, and other behavioral problems whenever he is unaware of his schedule, or when his teachers/caretakers are not able to provide answers regarding his schedule. Based on a county-wide survey we conducted among families of special needs children, we realized that this is a recurring problem affecting children with autism and other cognitive disabilities. This inspired us to develop RoutineRemind, a user-friendly application for parents to record verbal schedules, which can be easily accessed by children of any cognitive ability with the click of a button. Not only is this more flexible and effective than a paper-based schedule, but it is also more personalized, as children get to hear the schedule and routines in their parent’s voice. In addition, since RoutineRemind is a mobile application, it can be used in any setting.We are all interested in machine learning because it is a fast-growing and relatively novel field that allows developers to create a wide variety of apps where computers can generate an output using data-driven algorithms. These outputs can be used to address problems in today’s world without the need for human assistance. In our app, we used various machine learning libraries to develop our natural language processing (NLP) algorithm for speech recognition. Through the use of this model, children with special needs can ask questions and access information about their schedules without the need for parental assistance. Furthermore, we implemented and built on different skills and techniques we learned through our computer science courses at school. In the end, we love helping our community and we were able to code an application that solved a real-world problem that is very close to our hearts.”
   OtoScan:When asked what inspired the creation of OtoScan, the students said, ”Omkar: My brother had a lot of ear issues growing up and had to get multiple ear surgeries done. Thus, I realized the importance of ear health and otolaryngology very early on. When I looked more into this field and saw that otitis media, the second most important cause of hearing loss, affected roughly 1.3 billion people in 2013, I knew that I wanted to make an impact on something that affects so many people around me. There are no current options on the market that allow for inexpensive, accessible and rapid diagnosis with the touch of a button. There was not a viable option that both captured images of the ear and diagnosed them, which gave us the idea to create one ourselves. Sritan: As someone whose relatives all live in remote villages in India that lack the highest quality of medical care or expertise, I am always trying to work on projects that use translational medical science and technologies such as machine learning to make expensive tasks much more accessible and cost efficient. Additionally, the fact that otitis media is more prevalent in areas with less ENT specialists and proper healthcare inspired me to take up such an initiative to help people like those close to me (both in the United States and globally).  Together, we wanted to make a true impact and take a large step towards significantly reducing the number of people who face hearing complications due to otitis media by tailoring the solution to those who need it the most: low-income communities and areas with insufficient healthcare systems. We wanted to combine the latest advancements in bioengineering, telemedicine, and machine learning (+ computer vision) to create a product that helps millions.”
   WishFood:When asked what inspired the creation of WishFood, the students said, ”What inspired us to create WishFood is the idea that there is just so much food being wasted by grocery stores and restaurants each year. Billions of pounds of waste are being produced by these two types of organizations, and this is having harmful effects on both global warming and food insecurity. At the end of the day, most restaurants throw away any ingredients or food that they weren’t able to sell that day; this is the same case for grocery stores that aren’t able to sell a food product by its sell-by date. Although these foods are perfectly fine to consume, they are being completely wasted. Our app not only prevents excess waste from clogging up landfills, but it also helps to mitigate food insecurity by providing food to those who aren’t fortunate enough to be able to waste food. We care very deeply about solving these two crises, and that is why we are planning on continuing this app even after the competition in order to make a change in the way food is being stored.”
   WordToASL:When asked what inspired the creation of WordToASL, the students said, ”In early middle school, Azul watched a show named Switched at Birth. In it, there were two, let’s call them sisters, one of whom was deaf. As Azul watched the show, she realized there was an entire community of deaf people that she was never aware of. This sparked an interest in ASL. Watching the struggles of the deaf character made Azul realize how marginalized deaf people are. It made her realize the many opportunities they would never have because they were deaf. Sydney shared this ideal, too, after conversations with Azul and through realizations of her own. Together, both of us realized that there was not enough awareness of the deaf community in America. Around three years later, Azul and Sydney had the chance to make an app for a hackathon in AP Computer Science Principles, which is where the idea for this ASL converter app was born.”
   COA:When asked what inspired the creation of COA, the student said, ”As a high school club member myself, I know how vital communication within a club is and I also know how poor it is in pretty much every club. There’s always way too many different platforms being used and no one can ever find what they’re looking for, so I made COA to put all the information in one place. The officers can record and edit everything and the members can refer to COA for whatever they need to find and even contact the officers from the contact information on each club’s page.”
   People's Pupil:When asked what inspired the creation of People’s Pupil: A Detection in Intoxication, the student said, ”A lot of people in the world die because other people on the road are intoxicated on drugs or alcohol. It is also not safe for them either so this inspired me to create this app.”
   PashHash:When asked what inspired the creation of PashHash, the students said, ”We often forget passwords for different applications, resorting to using the same password for every website. This is unsafe as it makes it easy for a single data breach to access all of your accounts. PashHash doesn’t use a database to store your passwords, so everything is safe with you.”
   MetroMate:When asked what inspired the creation of MetroMate, the students said, ”In our experience of riding (and now driving) cars nearly everywhere, traffic is ubiquitous on the streets of Seattle. This traffic clogs the roads, emits over 50% of Washington’s CO2 emissions*, and the inaccessibility of rising gas prices made us want a different method of transport that didn’t have all of these issues. The obvious solution was buses, which already have a good infrastructure in place, but the existing tools do not take full advantage of the power of King County’s Metro system. That’s why we decided to make an app that would incorporate a multitude of tools to enhance and facilitate a bus rider’s experience.  While working on a Scouting project we conducted an interview with the Homeless Outreach Manager of Bellevue, where we learned that a big issue for city officials was finding ways to make the resources in place more accessible for people of lower-income status. This was inspiring to us, as buses are a cheap and effective way to get where you want to go, so we decided that resource searching would be a perfect feature to implement in our app.”
   Glumi:When asked what inspired the creation of Glumi, the students said, ”We were inspired to create GluMi after watching our friends and family struggle with the inconvenience of Glucometers. We watched soccer teammates be pulled from important games because they had to prick themselves on the sidelines, and we watched grandparents go through the hassle of stabbing themselves in the finger on the daily. All of this inconvenience, and there wasn’t even a convenient app for them to track their daily readings. Because of this, we wanted to create a device that would allow far more convenient measuring of blood sugar. This is why we developed the Breathanalyzer, which only required a quick breath into it. To accompany the Breathanalyzer, we wanted an easy to use app that allowed diabetics to track their data through digestible visuals. After doing research, we also saw a need for tracking of blood pressure and food intake. The CDC recommends diabetics to keep track of food intake because it allows them to see what makes their blood sugar go up or down. Blood pressure tracking is also recommended because high blood pressure in conjunction with diabetes can be very dangerous. This pushed us to include further functionality in the app, which allows the comprehensive tracking of blood pressure and food intake in parallel with blood sugar.”
   EduLang:When asked what inspired the creation of EduLang, the student said, ”I have been volunteering with refugee organizations since 2020, offering STEM after-school programs. I noticed that many children there couldn’t take advantage of these classes because of a lack of English language skills. Unfortunately, our education systems have not provided adequate resources for English language learners that can help them progress at the same pace as other learners in non-language aspects of education. The root cause lies in the inability to source teaching material and staff that is proficient in the languages spoken by these learners. Research shows that children who have a strong foundation in their home language more easily learn a second language. However, there weren’t many bilingual teachers that could communicate in the native language of the child and their family to help them.  I started exploring ways of bridging the language gap and wanted to build a scalable solution that could at least help students and families that were proficient in their own native language. Unfortunately, most commercial products in the market did not serve the low-resource languages and dialects that these families spoke. Under these circumstances, speakers of low resource languages will continue to be marginalized and the divide between them and the rest of the world will grow exponentially. I felt that if I could create bilingual content in English and the native language of the learner, especially childrens’ books, these kids and their families could take advantage of that content to teach themselves English. I realized that this could only be done at scale by leveraging natural language processing. I met with the CEOs of a few startups that were working in the language translation domain and realized that a few of them provided APIs for language translation. I therefore came up with the idea of leveraging these language translation APIs to build a multilingual mobile children’s library that augments and accelerates English language learning among kids who have a proficiency in a low-resource language. A key element of creating a multilingual library is to find content that is interesting and culturally relevant for the reader. A refugee child arriving from Africa may not relate to most American content for example. I identified open source African children’s books and also partnered with organizations that generated original Ethiopian content. I then drew mockups and designs for the app, learned and leveraged Optical Character Recognition (OCR) to build the V1 version of the app.”
   EcoFriend:When asked what inspired the creation of EcoFriend, the student said, ”My biggest source of inspiration to create this app was just watching the people around me. Very often I see people throwing things wherever they want to: on the sidewalk, in beaches and rivers, on the grass, and basically wherever they can. Barely anyone thinks twice before tossing something in the trash that could be recycled, and let’s not forget climate change. How often do people decide I’ll ride my bicycle to school today instead of taking a car, or, I’ll take a bus today? Most people don’t even know how much less their carbon footprint could be if only they’d bother reading articles or watching videos. Some don’t even turn off their cars at traffic lights, contributing to SO much air pollution. In fact, in some countries people have to walk around with masks on just because the air is too unhealthy to breathe. I realized that although changing these habits may seem tiny and worthless, they definitely affect our environment, in many more ways than we think. All that trash we throw in beaches? It suffocates marine life like turtles and fish, and not to mention, also damages the immune system of many sea mammals. If only people would stop and think before doing something, it would make our surroundings so much cleaner and healthier. Keeping that in mind, I wanted to create an app that would not only just lay out an assortment of facts, but also make it fun for people to protect the environment. I wanted to show everyone how easy and simple it really can be if they just care, and I realized, the biggest way to do that would be to make it worth their time. People rarely want to do anything that they won’t get something out of; that’s why when you finish all the levels in my app, you get a certificate personally signed by the CEO of EcoFriend! My end goal was just to make an app that would -hopefully- make the world a much better, cleaner, and healthier place to live.”
   Idealize:When asked what inspired the creation of Idealize, the students said, ”What inspired us to create Idealize is that while we were trying to come up with an idea for an app, we thought about what if there was a platform that gave you ideas on what sort of app you should create. This simple thought led us to asking ourselves, why don’t we code such an app? This allowed us to create the app and have a platform where users can give ideas that they think would be cool and for someone, who is capable of doing so, to bring the idea to life.”
   Brain Food:  NutriQuiz:When asked what inspired the creation of Brain Food:  NutriQuiz, the students said, ”We knew kids’ eating habits weren’t the best, so we did some research and were surprised by what we saw.  According to the CDC, ( https://www.cdc.gov/healthyschools/nutrition/facts.htm ) consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages among kids made up 10% of their total calories each day and most children don’t eat the recommended amounts of fruits and vegetables.  Even worse, we discovered that empty calories from added sugars and solid fats contribute to 40% of daily calories for children and adolescents.  Almost half of those come from “soda, fruit drinks, dairy desserts, grain desserts, pizza, and whole milk.” We also learned that most kids don’t even consume the recommended amount of total water, which should be accessible to everyone.   We also discovered that poor nutrition can have huge impacts on the rest of a child’s life, like in school, sports, and other activities. According to the journal Medicine, ( “Dietary Habits Are Associated With School Performance in Adolescents” ) eating fruits, vegetables, milk, and healthy breakfasts has a strong correlation with good school performance.   Finally, the worst thing is that unhealthy eating can impact the rest of a child’s life.  According to Healthwise, children who eat poorly can get long-term health issues including osteoporosis, cardiovascular diseases, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, and atherosclerosis when they are adults.   Knowing all this, we decided we would make an app that would help kids learn to eat better to help them be more successful in school, in their outside experiences, and even in their adult lives.”
   Password Manager:When asked what inspired the creation of Password Manager, the student said, ”With technology advancing further and society relying more and more heavily on it, having secure credentials is a big priority for many people. According to ForgeRock, in 2021, more than 2 billion data records containing usernames and passwords were stolen by hackers. I realized my online presence is at risk of being hacked because most of my passwords were not secure. At the same time, I was interested in cybersecurity and was learning about how malware affects your computer and all the different ways your computer can no longer be yours. I realized how vulnerable your credentials are if you do not keep it in a secure place. This is when the idea of a password manager came about.  I made this site as a way to motivate myself into having more secure passwords. This project would prevent me from having to worry about whether I would remember the password or not. I decided to make this into a website instead of a mobile app because I wanted to learn more about web development. I started doing some research and I stumbled upon Flask which was perfect for me as it catered to all my needs.  In the end, this application helped me to learn web development at a deeper level. Also, I have made my own online presence more secure.”
   Mathware:When asked what inspired the creation of Mathware, the students said, ”We believe that in order to be successful in math, you must be strong with the basics. Although basic math is a big focus in school, some students don’t learn as well without hands-on activities. We know that in our technological world, success in mathematics is vital for everyone. We wanted to create a tool that allowed struggling students another chance to master their basic skills. We felt a need for an app where students can interact with equations to learn strategies that will apply to their future education. Our hope is that this app will lead to more students experiencing success in their schools.”
   Campaign Simulator:When asked what inspired the creation of Campaign Simulator, the students said, ”One of our team members’ mom ran for school board and we wanted to make a game that related to that in a fun way.”
   Medication Reminder:When asked what inspired the creation of Medication Reminder, the student said, ”My Grandpa and Grandma were having a hard time remembering which pills to take so I thought, why don’t I create an app for that?”
